I don’t mean to please grand people.With love friends’ notions I’d rateAnd give you all that 1 could scribbleAs pawn that’s worth of dear mate.Its worth of fine and charming soul,Of saint fulfilled generous dreams,Of lively lucid verse’s glow,Of lofty thoughts, of simple things.All right, by hand unfair ownYou take my set of florid rhymesWhich are half-funny and half-mournful,Of common thinking, somewhat thoughtful,Slipshod result of my pastimes,Of sleepless nights, of inspirations,Of years young but whithered hard,Of mind some cold observations,Of grievous notes of the heart.CHAPTER ONEHe hurries up to live, As well as he does to feel.K. Vyasemsky.I‘My uncle keeps to honest systems: By falling ill yet not in jest,He made me love him with insistence And couldn’t find some better test.Well, his example gives a lesson; But, goodness me, it’s quite distressingTo sit with him all day and night, Not stepping out of his sight.And what insidiousness you show, When you amuse a man half deadArrange the pillows in bed Then give him drugs in sadness, thoughYou sigh not speaking of your will: When will the devil come for him!’IIThe young scapegrace was so deeming, When he by post-chaise in dustWas shaking. Due to Zues he’s being The heir of all relatives in trust.Ruslan’s, Lyudmila’s friends!Somehow, Without prefaces, just now, For hero of my book Let me attract attentive look:Onegin, friend of mine for years, Was born on Neva-river’s banks.May be, you rose from the clans In those places, or have dears,Somewhere you could look at me, But harmful is the North for me,IIIHis father served for many years, And fell in debt, such big and vast,That, giving balls three times a year, He squandered all he had at last.But Eugene’s fate for him was fair: At first by Madame he was cared,But then a frenchman took her place.The boy was frisky but with grace.Monsieur l’Abbe, a Frenchman mere, To give the boy some chance to rest,Was teaching him with ready jest, With morals never was severe,For pranks reproved with gentle talks, To Summer Garden took for walks.IVInsurgent youth is not yet endless. When Eugene was to change his sortIn times of hopes, tender sadness, Monsieur was driven from the court.Onegin’s now free from care. In fashion has he cut his hair,Like London dandy, well arrayed, First coming to the world he made.His French was so perfect now, That he could chat, as well as write,He was in dances quick and light, Without tension he could bow:What more you want?The world said: why, He is a clever, pretty guy.VWe all to learn had little go And anyhow something got,With education, as you know, We all can shine, and bless it God!Onegin was in eyes of people, (Which were in judgements strict, not feeble,)A pedant but of science man. He had a happy talent then:He was enabled, slightly rushing, To speak of anything at once,As real expert does by chance. He could be silent in discussion,His epigram’s unwaited file Could make all pretty ladies smile.VIBut Latin’s not in fashion now. To tell the truth but frank enough,He knew the Latin anyhow: To talk about epigraf,Of Jouvenale to talk much better, To end with vale own letter,Remembered, though with mistakes, Two little verses of Enaid’s.He never wished to rummage quickly In chronological thick dustOf writings of the life in past, But ancient anecdotes deeply -From Romul to the present day - In depth of mind he kept away.VIINot having any higher passion To rhymes to dedicate his life,Iambus he, at frank confession, From trochee couldn’t tell meanwhile.Feocrite, Gomer were reproved, Yet Adam Smith was well approved,In house-keeping he was best Arid any problems put to test:Of how state itself enriches, And how lives, which way and whyWithout gold can revive While simple product is its richness:His father didn’t understand Arid put in pledge the whole land,YIIITo tell you all, what he had known, I haven’t any time at all.His genius was unique, alone, He knew of something best of all,Which was for him from time of childhood Like work and torment, was delightful,Which pressed his spirits all the way And kept his laziness for day, -It was the art of tender passion, By Nazon brightly glorified.But Nazon was by world denied And suffered past rebellious session:Moldavia, that’s far away From Italy, was end of way.IX………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..XFrom early times he was dissembling, Some hidden hope he could leave,He pined away, he was dissuading, Was dull and jealous, made believe;Could come such proud or obedient, Could be attentive or indifferent;Was languishing and taciturn, Eloquent ardently in turn;In hearty letter, as its sender, He was slipshod.For all of thatOf own life he could forget!His look was always quick and tender,Was impudent and shy; sometimes Could show how tear shines,XIWas seeming new on each occasion, With jokes innocence amazed.Could give a fright by desperation, With flattery could draw one’s gaze,Was able any glimpse of sweetness, Of vergin years bias giftnessWith passion and the wit to gain, For sudden tenderness to wait,For words of love to be entreating, First move of heart to catch by chance,To chase the love and all at once To get agreed a secret meeting,And then from people far away To give her lessons all the day?XIIAnd how could he be annoying The hearts of ladies, whom he knew!But when his thoughts were of destroying His own rivals, though few,His scandal talks were such backbiting!His nets for them were so frightening!But blissful husband of coquette, To part from him you did regret!By cunning husband he was greeted, Of Faublas previous a fan;By one mistrustful old man; Him stately cuckold admitted,Who’s always proud of himself, Of dinner and of wife herself.XIII, XIV………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..XVSometimes, when he’s in bed yet sleeping, Some papers they are bringing him.What?Invitations for a meeting?Three houses will wait for him.Some balls, one children’s entertainment...What will he choose for his engagement?With which to start?In wonder style To every place he came in time.Meanwhile he’s dressed for walk at morning, His bolivar he’s having on	{3]And comes to bouieward quite forlone: He there at a space is walkingUntil his breget sleepless, fine Will strike the bells for him to dine.XVIIts dark.In sledge he’s sitting now. -Away, away! - the driver marks,And, covered with the frosted gown, His beaver collar now sparks.To Talon’s surely he’s raiding. Kaverin there is awaiting.He comes: the corks for ceiling pass, The wine like comet splashes fast.A bloody roast-beef is given, And truffles, splendour of teenage,In France of cooking highest gauge; And pie train Strassburg, freshly driven,Between the Limburg lively cheese And best pine-apple gold squeese.XYIIThe thirst demands some more of drinking To cool hot cutlet’s fat at once,But breget bells are now clinking: New ballet will begin by chance,Of theatre strict legislator, Inconstant adorer of laterQuite charming actresses, he is An honoured cityzen of links.For theatre Onegin’s speeding. In it each man is free at all:He may each entrechat catcall, Or hiss Moina, Fedra greeting;Or Cleopatra may encore (By others to be heard once more).XYIIIEnchanting land! In days of wisdom, Of satire great potentate,Fonvizin shone, a friend of freedom, Knyazhnin was always up-to-date.With Ozerov all were delighted, Semyonova with him dividedThe tears of the people’s awe. Katenin there could restoreOf Corneille stately genius; there Was known prickly ShakhovskoyWho wrote comedies with joy; With glory Didla’s crowned there.And there, in the shades of links, My younger days were rushing things,XIXMy goddesses’ what are you? where?You listen to my grievous call:Are you the same, or others dared To change, replace you there all?Shall I again your chorus hear?Of Russian Terpsichore’s dearShall see emotional flight?Or dismal eye will never findAt boring stage some known actor, And, turning to unknown worldMy disillusioned lornette, Of joy some careless spectator,With yawn I’ll cover disrespect And shall of bygone recollect?XXEach box in theatre is shining, In pit each stall already boils,In gallery the claps are flying, And rising curtain makes a noise.Half-aireal and resplended, To magic bow all attended,Istómina’s in front of pit, With nymths she waits to make a hit.With one of feet the floor she’s touching, With other slowly she wheels,Then sudden caper - and she fleets Like down from Eolus marching,She makes her figure twine and twist, With quick her foot the foot she beats.XXIEach claps.Onegin now enters, For stalls comes over the feet,Lornette his double slantwise renders To see all ladies to be fit,He cast a glance at ladies’ tires, At circles but with looks, attiresWas terribly unsatisfied. With every man at any sideHe bowed. Unattending body, At stage he looked as if by chance,Turned off, then yawned and said at once:«It’s time to change them in a body,Too long by ballets I was pressed, By Didle too I am depressed».XXIIYet Cupids, devils and the serpents Make noise and hop in front of pit;Yet some of weary men-servants At entrance on fur-coals sleep;Yet someone hisses, feet are stamping, Some blow nose, cough, are clapping;Yet outside, as well’s inside, The lanterns everywhere shine;Yet, being chilled, are striking horses, Annoyed by harness; near lightThe drivers all themselves incite By clapping; each his master curses...Onegin’s out by himself, He goes to redress himself.XXIIIShall I portray in truthful picture Secluded study of the best,All fashioned model of the creature Who’s dressed, undressed, anew redressed.All fancy goods for whims abundant Which are supplied by busy LondonAll over the Baltic waves For forest, fat and hand-made lace;All things by Paris craft invented To help the idle hungry tasteThe great prosperity lo waste - To have at home he intended:Philosopher among his mates With them his room he decorates.XXIVVisantine tubes with amber, treasures Of bronze and porcelain of the past;For coddled sense the best of pleasures: Perfume in bottles of cut glass.Some files of steel for nails, some combs, Some scissors, straight and wry: he ownsFor teeth the brushes, and for nails, Some thirty kinds for all avails.Rousseau (I’d say as if bypassing), Of how dared pompous GrimTo brush his nails in front of him, Eloquent madcap, wasn’t grasping.The knight of freedom and of right, In case like this he wasn’t right.XXVYou may become a man of business And think of beauty of the nails.With age to argue is unfitness; The custom’s despot of the males.Like great Chadayev, Eugene dear Of jealousy reproach feared,Was pedant, judging of the cloth, We’ll call him dandy for the forth.At least three hours he daily In front of mirrors gladly spent,And from his dressing room he went Like giddy Venus, when quite gaily,In man’s attire all arrayed, The goddess comes to masquerade.XXVIThe modern taste of his attire, To keep your curious gaze,To meet the scholar world’s desire I could describe, you’d be amazed.Of course, it would be so bold, Describing is what I must hold.B By pantalones, frac, gillette - In Russian they are absent yet.I now see, of it confessing, That even my such poor styleYet might be less fulfilled for while By foreign words without pressing,Yet long ago did I look For words in Academic Book.XXVIITo other things let’s make approach: For ballet we shall hurry up.To it headlong in simple coach Onegin now has sped upIn front of darkened silent homes, Along the sleepy streets in rows;All double lanterns in the sight Are stretching their joyful light,And make some rainbows on snow. By lampions dotted from the sidesA splendid house now shines, In windows some shades can flow,Appear profiles of heads Of ladies and of fashion cranks.XXVIIIMy Eugene is in front of home. Hall porter shadfly he bypassed,Up marble footsteps he has flown, With hand has mended hair fast.Came in.The hall is full of crowd; The music’s weary of sound;Mazurka is the crowd’s choice; All round are crush and noise;The spurs of horse-guards-man are jingling, Each foot of pretty ladies flies,At their fascinating signs The flaming looks of men are fleeting.Through roar of fiddles never thrives The jealous whisper of styled wives.XXIXIn days of gaiety and wishes I could at ballets lose my wit;It’s better place for passing letters fit.Oh, you, the husbands so honoured!To you I’ll give my service; forward You keep on mind my speech to you;I’d like anew to warn all you: You, mothers, should be more severe,While looking after girls, and yet At them keep strictly your lornette!If not... if not, let God deliver!I write it, as for long my time I haven’t any sin of mine.XXXAlas! for funs, which can be differed, I’ve ruined much of own life.But if the morals never shifted, My love to ballets could survive.I like teenage’s lively madness, The tightness, brightness and the gladness;Of ladies well-considered dress. I love girls feet. But it’s a stressTo try to find in Russia whole Of them three pairs straight and fine.Ah! I’ll forever keep in mind Small feet of lady.Sad and cold,I do remember them; in dream They trouble all my heart, such grim.XXXIIn what a waste, when? where? how? You, madman. will all them forget?Ah, feet, such small, where are you flow, What vernal plants are trampling yet?In eastern comfort being cherished Sad northern snow to embellish.You never stamped your small foot-prints. You liked smooth carperts of some printsTo touch in splendid admiration.Is it high time as I forgotFor you the glory and the laud, The father’s land, incarceration?But happiness of youth has gone Like light foot-prints in fields forlone.XXXIIDiana’s breasts, the cheeks of Flora Delightful are, my freinds, you see!But foot, such small, of Terpsichore More charming somewhat is for me.It is predicting to my gazing Reward, which I can’t be appraising,Conditionally by its charms Self-willed desires it alarms.My friend Elvina! Nothing hinders To love it under table cloth,In spring at grass and so forth, At iron fire-place in winters,At smooth of parquets in the halls, At sea on granite and at malls.XXXIIII keep in mind the sea, quite stormy: What envious I was when wavesIn turn to girl were all returning With love to feet to lay themselves.With waves I wished myself somehow To touch her dear feet by mouth.Among all those ardent days Of boiling youth, such bright and gay,I never wished with such a torture To kiss young Armid’s pretty lips,Or roses of flaming cheeks, Or bosom, which awaits for fortune.Ah, never impulse of the sense Put rack my soul ever hence.XXXIVBut other times in mind I bear!I saw myself in cherished dreamTo keep the happy stirrup dare...Meanwhile small foot in hands l feel;And works again imagination. Again her touch of fascinationIn cold heart is kindling blood... Again the grief, of love the flood!The talkative my lyre’s tired To glorify all haughty ranks.They don’t cost yet neither sense, Nor any songs, by them inspired:Of sorceresses words and peep Delusive are... as their feet.XXXVWhat’s my Onegin?Way is endless To bed from ballet; half asleepHe speeds through Petersburg, all restless, Awoken by drums’s beat.The hawkers walk, gets up the salesman, Is dragging to cabstand a cabman,With jug young woman goes fast, By feet she crushes snow-dust.The morning pleasant noise arose.Each shutter’s open, and dryBlue smoke rises to the sky, And thorough German baker goesIn paper cap for each of us To open his wasistdas.XXXVIOf ballet’s noises being tired, Transforming morning into night,He calmly sleeps in bed, retired From pastimes, flourishing big child.The afternoon he passes, ready Again to waste his day already.His life’s monotonous and is mixed, The same for many days is fixed,But was my Eugene satisfying By being free in prime of life,Among his victories to thrive, And his amusements gratifying?May be, in vain he was at feasts Such careless and fine at least?XXXVIIHis passions were too quickly cold, And he was bored by worldly noise;Not very long he could behold The girls as object of his choice;Adulteries were not adonng; His friends and freindship made him boring,As now not at any time He could bear-steaks and Strassburg pieWith fizz by bottle wine be pouring While saying clever pncky word -Because of ache of own head. And, though staying rake adoring,He ceased to like (with them was led) Invectives, sables and the lead.XXXVIIIHis illness never was distinguished From illness, known so far,Which they are calling spleen in English, In Russian known as khandra.It caught him now and for ever; But yet to kill himself he never,Thanks God, had any wish to try; But at the life his look was wry.Child-Harold’s copy, grim, morose To inner rooms and halls he came;The boston, gossips were in vain, Or dear looks or sighs - all thoseDid never touch hire as before, He caught the sight of nothing more.XXXIX, XL, XLI ………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..XLIIOf higher world the queer ladies!The first he made - he left you all;It’s true, that all we live in ages, When rather boring is high call.Arid though ladies can be talking Of Say and Bentham at the walking,But as a whole their talk Is harmless, but unpleasant mock.Besides, they all are so pure, Magestic, for the love unfit,Are full of piety, of wit, Such cautious, that we can’t endure,And always turned, from us - I mean. That their looks give rise for spleen.XLIIIAnd you, the girls all young, good looking, Whom droshkies quickly take awayIn late of evening, such amusing, Along the Petersburg high-way,By him were left at your employments.Apostate of wild enjoyments,At home did he shut himself And yawning, tried to write of self.He tried, but of the work persistent He felt yet sickness. Nothing goodCould come of such a lazy mood. He didn’t join the guild existentOf men, whom I can’t judge for long, As I myself to them belong.XLIVDevoted to lazy feeling, With void in soul, he resstrainsHis temper, in his chair sitting, And aims to own each other’s brains;With ranks of books his shelf fulfilling, For long he eagerly was reading,But saw: annui, the rave, the harm, The fraud; nor shame, nor sense, nor charm;In all of them restriction’s queer; Antiquity the old backs.The novelty with ages smacks.Like women, books were all left here,And shelf with dusty books anew With mourning taffeta he drew.XLVOf world conventions breaking load Like he I lagged behind of fuss,I was his friend some while ago.I liked his features in the past:Devotion to dreams unwitting, Unimitated strange unfitting,His sharp, but somewhat cooling wit.I was embittered, he… unfit.We knew the game of passion’s oath; By life were anguished as a rule;The heat of hearts became all cool; Besides we were awaited bothBy spite of fortune and of mean, While both were beginners then.XLVIWho has ideas and is living, He looks at people with disdain,He has a trouble from the feeling Of spook of unreturning day.He hasn’t any fascinations, But has some snake of recollections,And him repentance badly nags; This inspiration often addsGreat charm to any conversation.At first his language me confused,But in a while I had been used To caustic, hot argumentation,To jokes mixtured with the bile, To epigrams with no smile.XLVI1And often in the summer’s sphere, When clear is the sky at nightAll over the Neva river, When waters, being gaily light,Do not reflect Diana’s features, Recalling bygone novel’s creatures,Recalling former love, such free, Perceptible and carefree,By night’s benevolent light breathing We mutely reveled and could fail!Like convict in the stocks from jail If brought to forests while he’s sleeping,We all were taken by the dreams, As if young life anew begins.XLVIIIWith utterly regretful soul, On granit leaning, straight. upright,Stood Eugene, thoughtful, quite alone, As poet himself described.Night sentries, far from one to other, In stillness called each one another;Of droshky light, remote noise From Million street was heard.Some boys In boat with its oars rowed Along the sleepy Neva’s stream,And we adored, like in a dream, Some song of horn and man, such bold...More sweet, than joys beneath the moon, Will stay of Torkwat’s octaves tune!XLIXOh, Brenta! I again shall see you. My dear Adriatic waves,Inspired, I again shall feel you, Your magic voice for me awaits!Appolo’s children took it sacred; For Albion proud lyre ratedI love him, he’s my kin in-law.Italian nights I shall adore.And being free, again	revel In girl from Venece, pretty, young,Sometimes she’s talkative or dumb, In secret gondola I’ll travelWith her, my lips will find anew Petrarka’s language ‘I love you’ .LBut will it come, my day of freedom?Its time! - I everyday appeal.At sea I wait for better season, The sails of ships I call, I feel,That under gale, en waves in boat All over the sea crossroadShould I begin my freedom flight.It’s time to leave for life the tightAnd hostile shore, I shall be rushing To come to midday desert steppeIn Africa; at any step To sigh about mirky Russia,In which 1 loved and suffered hard, And where buried I my heart.LIOnegin was already ready With me some foreign lands to rate,But fate for us was never steady: For long we had to separate.Away had passed his old father, Onegin was attacked by ratherAggressive lenders each offends, Each has his own wit and sense.But Eugene all the lawsuits hated With lot contented, gave all themInheritage, he had by then, Not seeing loss in all, he wastedOr may be guessed from far away That uncle his would pass away.LIIReport for him was so sudden From steward:“Uncle is in bed, His breath again began to harden, To see his nephew he’d be glad”.In sadness he it all was reading, At once he hurried for the meeting,By post-chase he headlong went, Was yawning sweetly before hand,Prepared for the sake of money To sighs, to boredom and to fraud(With all that I began my thought). But when he reached it in a hurry,On table Eugene found then For funeral prepared man.LIIIHe found house full of servants; To see deceased, from any sidesHis friends arrived like vile observers Who come to funerals all times.Deceased was buried after meeting, The priests and guests were drinking, eating,Then all they grandly went away, As if they spent a business day.The former foe of the orders, The waster, Eugene of the lands,Of waters, forests and of hands Is master in the country borders;He’s very glad that former pass He changed for anything at last.LIVAt first two days anew he drove Along secluded lone fieldsIn coolness of the gloomy grove With purl and babble of still streams,On third day, looking all around, He saw nor copse, nor hill, nor ground;He quickly sleepy was from them, And grasped all clearly by then:In country tedium’s prevailing Without palaces or streets,Nor ballets, cards, nor verse one meets.Khandra pursued him, always waiting,It looked for him through all his life Like own shade or loyal wife.LVBut I was born for peaceful living, In village stillness gladly breathe,In country lyre is more ringing, More vivid are creative dreams.Devoted to childish leisure 1 hike at lake in desert nature,And far niente is my law.	 I wake at mornings to adoreThe sweet prosperity and freedom; I read a little, sleep for long,For flying glory don’t long.The same I was in time of wisdom,All days I spent in sleep, in shades, And there had my happiest days.LVIThe love, the plants, the void, the village, The fields! to you I’m staunch a friend.From Eugene differ I my image, To note this I always trend,In order that derisive reader, Or any editor, too eagerFor intricate and slander talk, In checking all my traits for mock,Could not repeat, yet being shameless, That I could scribble own faceLike Byron, poet of grace. Or it’s impossible or faithlessTo write about otherself As if about ownself?LVIIAll poets, meanwhile I’ll note, Of dreamy, pensive love are friends,Sometimes in dream they all, whom dote, To soul mine arrived like guests:My soul secret forms was keeping, My muse made all them once more living,And I, untroubled, glorified The girl from rocks, ideal my,And girls, at banks Salgirian captured.But now, friends, from all my sides -‘Of whom your own lyre sighs?’ By you I’m often briskly questioned, -‘To whom in throng of jealous girls You dedicated tune of hers?’LVIII’Whose glance, exciting inspiration, With sweet caress gave best rewardFor thoughtful singing with attention?’‘And whom your lovely verse adored?’Ah, no one, my friends, believe me!But road alarm of love then filled me.All that I gladlessly survived.He’s blessed, who with his love combinedOf rhymes the fever: he could double Of poetry sacred scraps,Arid, following Petrarka’s tracks, Could calm his heart’s the biggest trouble.Could catch the glory by the way: But I in love was dumb, inane.LIXThe love’s foregone, the muse appeared, And clearer my mind became,I’m free, but look for union, geared In sound, sense and temper game/I write, and heart yet isn’t boring, The pen unwitting isn’t drawingAlong unfinished rhymes of words No girl’s small feet and no heads.Extinguished ash will not be heating, Without tears I am sadAnd in a while of storm the track In soul mine will soon be ceasing,And then I shall begin to rhyme New couplets, more than twenty five,LXAlready I of plan was thinking, Of name of person number one,From novel’s only beginning — I’ve finished now chapter one.I checked it all, and very strictly; In many places contradictory,But never wanted to correct; To censorship I’ll pay my debt;To journalists I put at mercy Of labour mine some real fruit.You get along the Neva’s route, Newborn by me the work of fancy;For me the glory bring, of course: Wry talks, the noise, a lot of curse!CHAPTER TWOO , rus!HorO Russia!IThe hamlet, where Eugene’s boring, Is nice and cosy a nook,In it a friend of joys quite virgin Could bless the sky if cast a look.His house stood in place selected, From winds by mountains protected,On river’s batik; and far away In front of it, all looking gay,Some meadows and fields extended; Somewhere villages were seen,Some herds were walking in the scene, By garden canopies were ended,It was neglected., large in gauge, Of dryads shelter for an age.IIThe honoured castle was erected Like all such castles: it was fineAnd placid, solidly effected, In style of clever old time.At any place there are some chambers, Of damask are in rooms wallpapers,The portraits of the tsars on walls, And motley tiles on stoves.All’s By now much dilapidated, Indeed, I don’t know why.But anyway the friend of mine To be light-hearted had been fated,As he indifferently could yawn Inside antique or modern hall.IIIOnegin had that room for living, In which his uncle lived on earth:At window he flies was killing And daily house-keeper cursed.It all was simple: floors of oak, Divan, the table, large wardrobe,Of any ink not any spot, In room two cupboards they had got:In one he saw of brandies order, In other found debit book,A jug for apple juice he took, An old calendar in order:The old man had no time To read the books of other kind.IVAmong his properties alone, To pass away his lazy time,He wanted to establish own, In orders newer fashioned line:In country’s place the man of wisdom, He gave his serfs a piece of freedom:The corvee yoke changed for rate, And serfs were blessing their fate.For that a neighbour in his farming Was puffing up: to his big farmHe saw in it some dreadful harm; The other smiled, but smile was cunning;And they expressed the common wish To call him dangerous queer fish.VAt first they came to him for visit But as he usually was gone(For him to hide was very easy By riding stallion from the Don,When suddenly from village rear He could some droshky’s sounds hear),Such acts insulted neighbours all, They stopped to come to him at all.’He’s ignoramus’, said the neighbours, ’He is free-thinker, drinks red wineFrom glass not stopping For a while’. He never kisses hands of ladies,Says yes or no, never да-с Or нет-с’(the words, they all would pass).VIIn own village to appear New landlord in a droshky came,And to the same and strict revealer, To neighbourhood occasions gave.By name he was Vladimir Lensky. With Göttingen in soul frankly,He, dandy in his prime, approves All Kant’s ideas and his moves.He brought from Germany his dear, As poet, of learning fruits,Were full of liberty his views And soul. Ardent, somewhat queerWas his emotional speech. Black curls his shoulders could reach.VIIFrom cold world of dissipation To fade away not having time,His soul’s warmed with inspiration By lady’s greetings, friendly kind.Concerns of heart he was ignoring, He future hopes was adoring,And of the world new lustre, noise Fulfilled his wit with future joys.By honeyed dream he was amusing The doubts of his own heart;For him the aim of life was smart Quite puzzling riddle, much alluring,He puzzled over effect, In it could miracles suspect.VIIIHe did believe, that soul dear Will join enevitably him,That she, delightless in the near, Is daily waiting just for him;And he was sure: friends are ready To suffer all for him already,Will never tremble their hand To beat the slander off a man;That there are by fate selected Of people dear sacred friends;That their friendship never ends; By unreflected rays effected,It will sometime all us illume, Will gift the world some blessed perfume.IXRegret, resentment, being sorry, Some pure love to every boon,Some sweetish torture of the glory His blood excited very soon.With lyre, while abroad residing, In Goethe’s, Shiner’s places hiking,By their poetic light He own soul did ignite.Of art high muses fine impressions He, happy, never put to shame,In songs could proudly retain For all his life exalted passionsAnd impulses of virgin dream, And grand simplicity in him.XHe sang of love, for love was loyal, His song was clear like the noon,Like thoughts of simple lady’s soul, Like dreams of child, or like the moonIn deserts of the heaven’s districts, The goddess of the sighs and secrets.He sang of partings and of griefs, Of something, foggy misbeliefs,And of romantic finest rose. He sang of countries: far awayIn them in stillness of the day He real tears could expose;He sang of how life could fade; All that in his teenage he made.XIThe one was Eugene in these deserts, Who could evaluate his gifts.But landlords of the country’s peasants Were never liked by him at feasts;The noisy talks he was escaping; All their prudent talk, such raving,About haying and of wine, Of kennels, of relation’s lint, -Could never show shining passion, Nor sparks of poetic light,Nor sharpness, nor some sign of mind, Nor of communal life succession;But talk of their dear wives By absent wit him always strikes.XIIHe’s handsome, rich, of fair manner. And neighbours said: he needs a bride.Such custom’s known everywhere: To marry daughters every triedTo have half-Russian neighbour dear; As quickly as he can appearThey speak to him of no more, But being bachelor is bore;Him call to sit to samovar, And Doonya quickly gives him tea,They whisper her, You, Doonya, see!Then bring to Doonya some guitar,And she is squeaking (dear me!): In gold chamber visit me!...XIIIBut Lensky, having no wishes Of marriage ties the weight to have,To Eugene sent his hearty greetings: Some hints on nearness he gave.They friends became.But wave and stone, The ice and flame, the verse and proseHave less in difference between Each one.At first they’d nothing seen In common.Then they estimated Each one another; daily forthThey met each other, riding horse, And then became unseparated.Such men (I’m first of them to blame) From boredom dear friends became,XIVBut even such a friendship, readers, We haven’t now; each of usWithout prejudice considers The others oils but us as ones.To be Napoleon each wishes, But millions of the two-legged creaturesFor us are only some tools, And all ones passionate are fools.But Eugene was beyond conception: Of course, he knew the people well,In general he gave them hell, But any rule has some exception:He differed people in effect, And other’s passions could respect.XVTo Lensky he could listen smiling.His ardent talk was full of haze;His wit of poet was milding; His constantly inspired faze, -He tried his cooling word to own, To keep away from man like this;He thought: a fool would trouble his Such quickly fading high affection,Without me his time will come, But now let him live in calmAnd great belief in world’s perfection, Forgive him ardour of his age,Of young delirium high rage.XVIEach topic’s argued at the meetings: To meditate they were in moodOn real price of ancient treaties, On evil, good, on science fruit,On old prejudices harmful, Eternal secret tombs alarmful,The fate and life in their turn To their judgement could return.The poet in heat of judgement Some nothern poem could cite,As if to prove that he was right. And Eugene, passionate, indulgent,Who understood it wee a hit, All his attention paid to it.XVIIBut often passions were invading The mind of hermits, of my men.Of passions press at last escaping, Again Onegin said of themUnwillingly, with sighs of pity: He’s blessed, who knew all their prettyEffects, but stepped away anew; He’s blessed much more, who never knewThe love; who cooled it with divorcement, By scandal enmity could strand,And yawned with happy wife and friend, Not troubled by the jealous torment;Who father’s money never trusts To cunning friends, to crufty cards,XVIIIWhen we shall gather under banner Of stillness, rational and cairn,When well have cooled the passions temper And no more they would alarmAll us, well laugh at their impulse, At late ridiculous opinions,Then we’ll submissively obey To hear stories by the wayAbout other’s restless passions, And other’s love will touch the heart, -We’ll be like invalid in hut, Who nears ears to confessionsOf boasting moustached young guards Who conquered pretty ladies’ hearts.XIXBut all the youngsters, always flaming, Could never enmity conceal,The sadness, gladness, love inflaming They all were ready to reveal.Onegin no love could hook in, But listened with a pompous look-inTo Lensky speaking of himself, Revealing all his heart itself,His conscience Lensky was revealing, His own soul criticized.Onegin quickly recognized The talk of love, which was fulfillingWith many senses all this fuss, Which is antique for all of us.XXAh, he could love; they don’t now Have anything like real loveOf poet, who’s anyhow Convicted to the truthful love:One vision always, everywhere, The rime desire comes to dareTo comfort sorrow and grief.And nothing cooled his strong belief:Nor longest years of the partings, Nor all to muses given time,Nor foreign beauties so fine, Nor sciences, nor evening partiesCould change his soul little bit: Some virgin fire flamed in it,XXIYet child, by Olga fascinated, Ignorant yet of hearty pains,He, touching witness, captivated By childish prettiness of gamesIn shade of old trees protective, He was in games her mate effective.And parents foresaw the fate: Were calculating wedding date;In stillness of the humble grove Of innocence some charming loom,She near parents could bloom, Like lilies in the valley grow,Unknown in the thick of grass To bees, to moths at no paths.XXIITo her was due first dream unquiet Of poet: at love the drive,And thought of her in him inspired First moan of his conscious life.But you forgive him, games in stillness!He liked the grove’s timid thickness,He liked the stillness, lone mood, The night, the stars, the round moon.The moon, this miracle in heavens, To which we dedicated nightsAt meetings but without lights, And tears, secret torment’s gladness...But now dear moon for us Is mere lantern in the skies.XXIIIShe’s dutiful and always modest, As fresh as morning, always gay,Like life of bard, such simple, honest, Like kiss of love at dawn of day;The eyes are blue as depth of heavens, The smile, the flaxen curls of hairs,The movings, voice, the figure fine, All Olga has... but you can findAt any novel those features, Her own portrait, very nice;I was in love with it sometimes, But soon was bored by pretty creatures.Allow me, the readers mine, To show you her elder line.XXIVTatyana was the name of sister... Such name we use to gratifyThe novel’s pages of my either, At will that name well sanctify.Why not? It’s pleasant and sonorous; With it, I know, always goesReminiscence of old time, Of maiden’s room!We must meanwhileConfess; we have the taste quite mere In life, as well as in the names,(Not speaking of the verses frames). The education can’t adhereTo us: from it we have not more Than mincing manners to adore.XXVBut well, she’s named Tatyana; gladless, Nor by her sister’s pretty grace,Nor by her pleasant ruddy freshness She’d catch one’s eyes by simple face.She’s wild and sad, is daily silent. Like forest calf, she’s often frightened,In own family she was Like strange a girl in thoughts quite lost;She never could caress inspire For parents; it all seemed wrong.Yet being child, in children’s throng To play and jump had none desire,But at the window, not gay, Was mutely sitting all the day.XXVITo pensiveness she got accustomed From cradle to the present day,And drifting of the country’s pastime In all her dreams looked better, gay.Her tender fingers didn’t dare To take a needle; she could neverSome frame and lace for working fit, In silk embroider never did.As sign of lust for future being The master of her home, childIn games with doll can train for mild Decorum of the loyal living:Importantly repeats for doll The mother’s lessons, though small.XXVIIYet being child, at any year Tatyana didn’t play with doll;About news and fashions dear With dolls she didn’t talk at all,For all the childish tricks felt sorry, To them was stranger; dreadful storyIn winter darkness of the night Was captivating heart and mind.But when the nurse in summer gathered To Olga all her little friends,Tatyana hadn’t any trends To play with them in any weather:She’s always bored by loud laughs By noise of their playful muffs.XXVIIIOn balcony at morning sitting She liked to meet the break of day,When clouds in the sky are drifting And stars in turn all get away,And calmly edge of earth is lighting, And, sign of day, the wind is rising,And gradually rises day.In winter, when the night’s weak shadePossesses half of world existing Much longer, in the softened loomOf pale and foggy, sleepy moon The lazy East is yet asleeping, -At usual hour stirred up, In candle’s light she’s getting up.XXIXThe novels were for many years Her inner life, were liked by her;She loved the fraud about fears Of Richardson and by Rousseau.Her father was good-humoured being, From age retarted. Scornful feelingHe had of books, as no harm In them he saw, but no charmCould grasp in idle, futile reading, Was not concerned a little bitOf what the secret book, she hid, In daughter’s bed till day was dreamingHis wife herself such feeling had: From Richardson to be quite mad.XXXShe liked the books of Richardson Yet no because them all she read.And not because the Grandison To Lovelace was by her prefered;It was because of cousin dear: In Moscow princess AlinaWas talking much of them with pride.For husband then she was yet bride.But, being wife, she willy-nilly Yet sighed for man of other kind,Who pleased her soul and the mind, Much more was touching all her feeling:Good guy and sergeant of the guards, This Grandison could play the cards.XXXILike he, she was well-dressed, in fashion, In best attires every day;But soon, not asked for her concession, Was to the altar led away.To dissipate her greatest woe	 Judicious husband had a go:To village own took her soon; But she was often in a fume,Some days was crying, then was trying To get divorce from newly man;But soon to farming she began To be accustomed and relying.By us the habits have been got Instead of happiness from God.XXXIIThe habits sugared all her woe Which wasn’t smoothed by any chance:But soon she all was full of go, By it she calmed herself at once:Between affairs and the leisure She found out with a pleasureThe way to keep her man away! And everything became o’key.She was the works in fields observing, She salted mushrooms, punished men,She kept accounts; always then On Saturdays they bath were serving,Sometimes she beat a house-maid, - All that not asking man she made.XXXIIISometimes with own blood she wrote To lady’s album if by chance,Then changed in strict and quick a mode The maiden’s names by names from France,She tried her corset tight to wear, And Russian “н” in French best mannerThrough nose singingly could say, But soon her mood could pass away:To her it all seemed rather queer, She all forgot, replaced againEach name from France by Russian name, Forgot princess Alina dear;And she herself renewed at last Night-cap and dressing-gown fast.XXXIVHer husband’s love to wife was hearty, Her deeds he took for mere crank,To trust his wife he was light-hearted, In dressing-gown ate and drank.His life was calm, without woe. Sometimes his neighbours in his homeWould come together at week-ends, Unceremonious dear friends,To grieve, to talk of new affairs, To laugh, to gossip for a while,And thus the time would pass; meanwhile They ask, and Olga tea prepares;Then supper... time to be in bed, And soon the guests all home get.XXXVThey kept in peaceful life some customs Of dear old days; it means:They were at Shrove-day accustomed To have the fattest Russian blins;They had a fasting twice a year, They liked of round swing high gear,The guessing songs and round dance, On all Whitsundays caught a chance,While people yawn in church at prayer, To find a bunch of praying grassAnd drop some tears twice or thrice; They needed kvass not less than air,At table each of dear guests Had course according to the ranks.XXXVIAnd so grew they old both.But soon for husband, all at once,The door of coffin was unclosed: To have new wreath he got a chance;He died at hour of dinner, Bermoned by his neighbours dear,By children and by loyal wife With candid never seen in life.He was a common Russian barin, Was kind and good; at his remainsThe monument in words explains Submissive sinner, Dimitry Larin,The brigadier, a slave of God, Has peace by him forever got.XXXVIIAt his Penates, quite permissive Vladimir honoured all, who died;At neighbour’s monument submissive He dedicated him a sigh;His heart was sad, his voice was mournful.‘Ah, poor Yorick, said he, joyfulHe kept me often in his hands, While I could show many pranksWith medal for Ochakov playing, Intended Olga for my wifeAnd wondered: would he be alive?’Sincerely, in grief embracingHis heart, Vladimir qickly penned At tomb a madrigal by hand.XXXVIIIBy writing verse, the dismal mourner Of parents, with running eyes,The ashes patriarchal honoured.Alas! On furrows of livesNew generations by some reason, At secret will of great provisionArise and ripen, then will fall, And others after them come all,To-day frivolous generation Matures, stirs, already testsGrandfathers to the tombs do press, It comes, the time of exitation,Grandchildren once upon good day Will press from world all us away.XXXIXMeanwhile in life you try to revel, As much as I you take form it!I grasp its vanity, and never Too much I was attached to it;For fantoms I my eyelids closed; But some remote dear hopesSometimes are troubling wit and heart: Without printing pretty markTo leave the world I would he sorry.I live and write not for applause,But, seems to me I’d wish, of course To fill my fate with kind of glory.In hope that by future friend Of me some sound will be said.XLThe heart of somebody he’ll cherish, Arid, kept by touch of truthful fate,Perhaps, in Lethe won’t perish My verse, by wit and heart well made;Perhaps, in front of portrait famous, To people future ignoramousWill show my renowned face And say: ‘It’s poet of grace!’Accept you all my thankful feelings Admirer of peaceful muse,Ah, you, whose memory will fuse In verse my flying feeble dealings,Whose grateful, feeling, truthful hand Will pat the fame of old man!CHAPTER THREEFille était fille, elle était amourese. She was a girl She was in love.Malfilatre.I‘What way?You poets, are queer!’ -Good bye, Onegin, time has gone.‘I don’t hamper you, but dear, For evenings where have you gone?-To Larin’s -’Oh, looks it strangely: To kill your pretty evenings daily…Forgive me, isn’t it too hard?’ -For me it’s not - ‘But dear bard,I don’t grasp despite endeavours; You listen to (if I am right?)This Russian family seems light, To all the guests it’s always zealous,The jams, eternal talk of all: Of rain, of flax, of horses’ stall…’II-In this I see yet no troubles…‘But trouble is: they are such bores’.-I hate your world of fashion marbles, Much more I like the world indoors,And there… -‘For the sake of goodness, You keep the eclog, now useless.I’m sorry that you go… well, My dear Lensky, will you tell,If that Fillidae you can show, The subject for the pen to mourn,For tears, rhymes and so on?… Present me her’.- D’you joke -‘No’.-I’m glad. - ‘but when?’ -Well, now just, They will receive with pleasure us.III-Let’s go.- They were quietly driven,And got to neighbours in a while. At once they heartily were givenAll services of old time.It was well known friendly wellcome:On saucers jam they gave, and seldom Some berry water in a jug Put on a table, and a cup.IVThe way is short, from dear neighbour They go home fast, at speed;Let’s listen, yet without labour, To their talking, short indeed.But why, Onegin, you are yawning? -‘My habit,..I…’ -But you are boringMuch more... -‘Well, no, just the same...The field is dark in pretty gale...Andryushka, quicker must you go!What foolish, dumpy is this place!You see, your Larina is plain, But very dear old soul;And I’m afraid: in spite of charm That water brings me much of harm...VYou tell, of them which is Tatyana?’ -That girl, which’s always so sad;She’s taciturn like that Swetlana,.. When came, at window she sat.-‘But do you love, indeed, the other?’ -And what? -‘But I’d prefer another,If I were poet like you.Of life her features have but few.Like in van Dick’s Madonna finness, Her face is round, red, she’s boonAs well as ruddy foolish moon At the horizon’s foolish brightness’.Vladimir answered short, was dry. Then he was mute, his face was wry.VIMeanwhile Onegin’s stay at Larin’s Was estimated like a news,Affected native Russian banns, And all the neighbours were amused.They all began to guess of reasons, Invented stealthily decisions,They joked, not without sin At Tanya’s suitor made a hint.Some neighbours said of the impression That wedding had some pointed time,But was delayed for short a while As they had no rings of fashion.About Lensky’s wedding all Were sure neighbours once for all.VIITatyana heard with indignation All those gossips, but she hadWith unexpected consolation Unwittingly some thought of that:Some string of love in her appeared, In love affairs she was gearedAs well as seeds in vital strife In earth by spring are given life.Long since the girl began to languish, Could burn in bliss, in dismal mood,Her spirit longed for fatal food; Long since unbearable anguishMade all young heart to pine away, For someone did her soul wait.VIIIShe waited, looked and anyhow She said: well, yes! it must be HeAlas! all days and nights are now One long and lone dream in heat,All’s filled by Him, by image dear, And magic force, that she can hear,Yet speaks of Him; and she avoids The sounds of the tender voiceAnd gaze attentive of her maidens; She daily greatly is depressed;She doesn’t listen to the guests And curses their idle leisures,Unwaited coming any day And each delay to get away.IXAnd -now she with great attention Voluptuous novels quickly reads,With what a lively fascination Deludes herself with all deceits!By happy force of own dreamings She brings to life all novel’s beings,Like Julie’s lovers, grand Wollmar, Malek-Adel and De Linar,And Vertcr, that rebellious martyr, Unimitable GrandisonWith whom we all to sleep had gone; - For tender girl, the dreamer hearty,In single image they confused, In one Onegin all were fused.XShe feels herself like all her dear Of books beloved main persons feel:Clarissa, Julie and Delphina; Tatyana in the forest’s stillWith dangerous book alone’s hiking, In it reveals she so strikingHer secret heat, of which she dreamt, Whose plenitude ih heart she felt.She sighs, assuming as her real Delights of others and the griefs;Each day she whispers own myths Of letter to her image dear.But hero, I’m not wrong, Could never be like Grandison.XIHis style to pompous tune rerversing An ardent author tried sometimesTo show his beloved main person As perfect one for all the times,And gave this person all the beauty, And made him wrongly persecuted;With tender soul, clear sense Him gave attractive handsome face,And heated by the pure passion This agitated person badeHis wish to sacrifice his fate; But for the end (to make impression)Was always punished wicked vice, And good was given garlands twice.XIIIn haze are now minds of people: The moral them to sleep just makes;The vice, that’s gentle but not feeble, In novels now celebrates.Of British muse some old fables Her dreams disturb, and it enablesAs idols now to have got Or Vampire, who’s lost in thought,Or vagrant Melmoth, such distressful, Or Corsair, or Eternal Jew,Or Sbogar, mythical a few.Lord Byron with his whim successful Enveloped fussy egoism In hopeless romanticism.XIIIBut dear friends, it all is useless: If I in future won’t beA poet by will of goodness, New devil then will enter me;In spite of Foebus warning notes Myself I’ll humble to the prose, When novels in the old waysWill take the twilight of my days.Not secret tortures of the evil Would I in prose represent,But simply I to you will send The legends of the Russian realPast clans; the charming dreams of love, Antique moralities beloved.XIVIn them I’ll write of simple speeches Of dad, of uncle, old man:Of bold children’s secret meetings That near lime at brook began.Of partings, jealous indignation, Of tears of conciliation;Again of scandals, and at last To altar I shall lead them fast,And I’ll remind the speech of passion, The words of longing, wistful loveThat on the days I meant above, At feet of ladies fox expressionOf feelings quickly came to mind, But now weakly lag behind.XVTatyana, ah, Tatyana dear!With you I now tears shed;Of tyrant you didn’t fear, But now he your fate has had.You’ll perish, but before you go, You try in dazzling pretty hopeSome darkling blessing to invite To know better bliss of lifeAnd magic poison of its itches; You are pursued by happy dream,At any place you fancy him, The refuge for the happy wishes;At any place in front of you Your fatal tempter waits for you.XVIIn grief of love Tatyana goes To their garden, she is sad;But suddenly her eyelids close, She hasitates to make a step..,Her chest is high, her cheeks are covered By instant flame, they quickly flowered,The breath is fading in her lips, She heard some noise, her eyes did glimpse...The night then comes, the moon is mooving Around distant parts of sky;A nightingale in haze of night His loud melodies is tuning.In dark my Tanya’s quite upset With nurse in whisper has a chat:XVII‘...can’t sleep, it’s stuffy, you unclose The window and sit beside...’-But what is it -‘You tell of those Your old times... I’ve boring tide..’-But what about?I had happened To know many old legends,A lot of stories with the whirls, With wicked ghosts and the girls...My memory is dark.., I’m granny... And much forgot... of life the lineIs drawn, in turn I’ve bad nay time.My poor mind...- You tell me, nanny,About girls, you meant above, And how did you fall in love?XVIII-Ah, dear my! in my teenager We heard yet nothing of the love,Or otherwise I’d be with rages By all my kin pursued for love.-‘But how did you marry, nanny?’ -It was by wish of God.My Vanny Was younger, than myself I mean, And I was, dear, yet thirteen.For weeks matchmaker was then coming To all my kin, and due to thatMy father gave consent to wed.In fear I was crying, darling,In weep my plait was then undid, With songs to altar us could lead.XIXAnd I’m in family unknown...But are you listening yet to me?‘Well... I, my nanny… don’t know... For love I’m longing, dear me!To cry, to weep I’m now ready...’ -I see, you are unwell alreadyMy dear God, you bless and save!What do you want to ask, you say!But let me help with sacred water.You are in heat.- - But I’m not ill Well... nanny, I’m in love, I feel.., - God bless you now, dear daughter! -The nurse was using own way To help the girl with cross and pray.XX‘I fell in love’, again she whispers In nurse’s ear in dismay.-My hearty friend, you have some fevers.-‘I fell in love... you’d get awayMeanwhile the moon was brightly shining, By languid light it was enlightningTatyana’s pale and dismal charms, Her hair down let by chance,The tracks of tears; in a chair In front of heroine in griefIn wadded jacket and kerchief The old woman with grey hair.And all around dreams in still, With light of moon its all fulfilled.XX IWhile at the moon Tatyana’s looking, By own heart away she’s gone...Of mind some vague a thought is moving...‘You, nanny, let me stay forlone.You give a pen and paper, dear, I’ll stay in bed; make table near;Forgive me’.Lone in the room In stillness, in the light of moonShe’s writing, on the table leaning, And always Eugene’s kept in mind,Her letter of unwitting kind By love of innocence is breathing.The letter’s ready, has been fit...Tatyana, tell: for whom is it?XXIII knew some difficult young ladies' Like winter cold, pure, light,Implacable at their ages, Inscrutable for all my mind;In them I marvelled at the virtue And fashioned arrogance, that hurts you,And I confess: from them I fled: It seemed with horror I had readOn their foreheads words of Hades: Forever hopes you must leave...For them to love yet meant to grieve, To scare males was joy for ages.May be, you saw at Neva’s banks Some ladies of these queer ranks.XXIIIAmong admirers obedient I’ve seen she-cranks of other kinds:In pride they were with males indifferent. At distance stayed from praise and sighs.And I had found then, amazing: By their bashful, stern behavingThey scared love quite timid, shy., But they attracted lovers byAt least regret, sincere pity, At least by sounds of the speech,Which seemed to be more tender, rich; And with the trustful blind entreatySome youthful lover ran again Behind the fuss, but all in vain.XXIVBut why Talyana should be guilty?Because she’s innocent and plain,Of fraud she knows nothing strictly And wants to dream her life away?Because her love is not of fashion, Obedient to the call of passion?Because ire, truthfulness she’s swift? Because from heavens got as giftTo have some quick and restless fancy? Because her will and wit has hadAnd wayward, willful is her head? Or heart is flaming, tender, healthy?But can’t you really absolve Her passions, if you them revolve?XXVCoquette is judging always coolly; Tatyana loves without jest,For love she’s dedicated truly Like loyal child for mother’s nest,She doesn’t say: ‘Let us postpone For multiplying price of ownAttractiveness; to catch in nets By first expressing some regretFor hopes; then misunderstanding Well use to break the heart; againReturn him life by jealous flame Or otherwise the male offended,Like prisoner from any chain Is ready to escape again,XXVIBut l forsee some more of bounds: The honour of my land to save,I have without any doubts Tatyana’s letter to translate.Uneasily she was expressing Her thoughts in mother tongue expressive;Her Russian was yet very bad As Russian books she never read.That’s why in French she’s always writing.Alas! I must repeat again:A lady’s love until to-day To speak her Russian isn’t trying,And proud language’s now lit For prose postal a bit.XXYIITo-day they wish to make each lady To read in Russian.What’s the end?You’ll hardly meet to-day a maiden With Russian magazine in hand.My poets! I’d like to hear If I am right; the ladies dearTo whom in secret you did write Some verse, your sins to justify,To whom your hearts were dedicating,- In written Russian they were badAs no knowledge they had had, And dearly were deformatingThe grammar; language from abroad For mother tongue they all had got.XXVIIIAnd God forbid at evening party Or after ball, at porch, on stepTo meet a student while departing, Or scholar wearing night cap.I don’t like the Russian speeches Without grammar incompleteness, As well as lips without smile.Perhaps I’ll grieve if in a whileOf younger beauties generation Will follow the journal’s call:To grammar will subdue us all, To verse will pay too much attention:But I… it doesn’t bother me: To old times I’ll loyal be.XXIXSome wrong and wry neglectful babble Of mispronouncing of wordsLike long before make heart my tremble And all my soul always flirts.To have remorse I haven’t forces; Like Bogdanovich’s all verses I’d like all dear gallicisrns, As well as previous youthful sins.But well, its time I should be busy: The beauty’s letter I should use.But I am ready to refuse As its translation isn’t easy.I know: Parny’s tender rhymes Make no hit at present times.XXXThe bard of feasts, of languid sadness, you had chance to stay with me,With my request immodest, gladless I’d trouble you for helping me:To make your dear magic tuning Of beauty’s passion mood, resumingSome foreign words, she often writes.But where are you? Come! My rightsTo you	give with my endeavours And bows.But in gloomy cliffsInstead of praise he gets yet griefs: Alone under Finnish heavensHe’s hiking. Never, I believe, He has been bothered that I grieve.XXXIIn hands I have Tatyana’s letter. It’s kept by me with sacred sigh.With secret grief I read this matter, While reading cannot put aside.By whom was tenderness inspired? - With words neglectness who’s admired?And who inspired touching talk Which looks like madman’s hearty mock.It’s both harmful and absorbing.All that I don’t grasp.Let’s readMy bad translation incomplete. Its like of picture poor copy; Or like of«Freischutz» lovely tune But played by pupils in a Fume.Tatyana’s letter to Onegin.I write to you - what more or other To add to all by this is said?And now at your will is rather To punish me with scorn for that.But if my wretched fate you rather Will grasp with pity little bit, You’ll never leave me such unfit.At first I wished to keep it secret; Believe me: never of my shame You’d guess, as I would well behaveIf I had any hope rigid Not often, mere once a week,At you in village have a weak But look. To listen to your speaking,A word to say, and then again To think arid think, but of the same All day and night until new meeting.They say, you are a lone guy, In country’s stillness you are boring.And we... with nothing can we shine, We all to see you are adoring.What for you visited all us?In village, in forgotten stillness Of you I’d never know, thus I wouldn’t know tortures sleepless.Of agitated soul’s feelingsWith time I’d smooth and then might be I’d find a friend to suit my soul, Would be a loyal wife on whole, And virtuous mother I would be.Some other...But to no person In all the world I’d give my heart,It’s all decided (it’s my version) By heavens board: I’m yours at heart.My life has been a pawn but fruitless Of meeting with my dear friend;I know, you were sent by goodness, You’ll be my guard until the end,You came to me when I was sleeping, Unseen you were to me beloved,Your glance made languish me far love, Your voice was touching all my feeling For long... But that was not a dreamt You came, at once I got to know: Inflamed and heated I was whole.And then I thought: He’s now in;It’s true; to you I had boon listening, In stillness spoke. you to meWhen I to wretchers was assisting Or by the prayer was releasing From stress my soul within me.That instant I could trunk with reasonThat you had come, my dear vision In darkness came for head of bedAnd stilly neared me in calmness. I think its you with love and brightness Could whisper full of hopes word.What are you: angel guardian trusty Or tempter treacherous and ghastly?You help my doubts to resolve:Well, may he all it is by now The fraud of innocent young girlFor changes fated anyhow...Let it be so: you have hadIn hands my fate for ever now, In front of you I tears shed: Defend my soul anyhow...Imagine: I’m alone, thus From no man have understanding...It seems to me, my wit is fading And silently I perish must.I wait: with glance when you approach Some hopes give to poor heart Or heavy dream you stop by hard Alas! deserved by me reproach.I stop!I dread to read again...In fear shameful heart is sinking.For me your honour is the bail, I trust you bravely all my feeling...XXXIITatyana now sighs and moans, The letter’s trembling on her palm, The wafer’s drying on her own Inflamed by fever rigid tongue.Her head to shoulder’s inclining, Her light chemise is now sliding From charming shoulder away...But now radiant moon’s ray Is dying out, and some quaky From earth gets out steam.A stream Like silver shines. And after dream By hornlet peasants have been waking.Its morning: everyone again Is up. To her it’s all the same.XXXIIIShe doesn’t see that day is breaking. She sits in bed with hanging head And on her letter isn’t pressing Her well cut out round stamp.But stealthily the door unlocking Grey-haired nurse already’s walking, With tea on tray is coming up: -My child, it’s time for getting up; But, beauty, you are now ready!My dear early little bird!Last evening frightful words I’d heard; Thank God!I see you strong already!Of nightly grief I see none track, Your face is blushing poppy-red.-XXXIV‘Ah, will you do a favour, nanny?’ -All right, my dear, you command.-‘D’you think.’ indeed... suspicions any… But do you see...Ah, don’t mind’ -My friend, by God to hail I dare —‘You send your grandchild stilly there To give this note to... to my...The neighbour... order to your guy: Not say a word he must be ready, By no means to call my name!’… -To whom, my dear?Tell again, You see, I’m now muddle-headed.Too many neighbours we have had, I cannot count al! them yet.-XXXV‘What slow-witted you are, nyanya!’ -I’m old, dear friend of heart, My wit is now fading, Tanya: But long ago I was smart: By word of barin’s will I’d rather…-‘Ah, nanny, that is quite (mother, I’m never bothered by your wit; I speak of letter, you should fit For that Onegin’ -Well done dealing.Do not be angry, dear. you Well know: I am dull for you...But you are pale... What are you feeling? ‘It’s nothing, nanny, not at all.But send your boy, and first of all’ .XXXVIThe day had gone, but no answer...Next day has come...She’s up at once, Like shade she’s pale, but no answer...Well dressed, she’s waiting for her chance, But came to Olga her adorer.,.‘And where is your friend, the former?- Vladimir such request has got, It seems, he us at all forgot.’.Tatyana’s flushing, all she’s trembling - To be to-day he promised me,- Vladimir answers, - may be, he For post now yet is waiting.- Tatyana stands, she drops her eyes As if reproached by the vice.XXXVIIIt’s getting dark; already, shining, Is hissing evening samovar, It heats the tea-pot, brought from China; Light steam is whirling so far.By Olga’s hand the tea’s been pouring To little cup of guest adoring By dark and sweetly scenting stream; A boy already brings the cream; At window Tatyana’s standing, She’s breathing at the cooling glass And lost in thought quite deep and vast With pretty finger she is melting On misted window’s cool pane Her pattern O.E. again.XXXVIIIMeanwhile her soul’s feelings moan, Her tears filled her languid glance...What chatters!.. Blood in her runs cold...They rush into the yard at once!‘Ah, Eugene!’, - She is quickly running, Like shade she’s prompt, to exit’s jumping, From porch for garden through the yard She flies, to look yet back it’s hard; In short a minute she’s been racing Across the bridges and the glade, Along the forest, brook, the lake, She is the lilac bushes breaking, Through flowers she runs... in wrench Without breath she reached a bench,XXXIXHas fallen…‘Here’s He! that’s Eugene!My God! what thoughts could come to him!’Of tortures full, her heart refuges The hopes of her heavy dream.She’s trembling in the heat of fever,	 For him she waits and doesn’t hear That in the garden maidens sing, While they are gathering, not seen, In bushes berries: they were given To sing strict order (while they job To make them banns not to rob As berries never could be eaten: In country they invented then The way the banns to defend!),Maiden’s SongMaidens dear, beautiful, We are mates in friendliness,Let us play inventfully, Lot us play more happily,Let us sing in gaiety Song of maidens intimate,Lets attract. brave fellow To the chorus merriful,When we get that fellow, When we see him, instantlyLet’s away get rapidly, Him bespatter easilyWith the berries laughingly, Don’t hear secretlyMaiden’s singing intimate, Don’t peep invisiblyAt the games of maidenhood.XLBut she’s neglectful to the singing, To ringing voices of the maids,She waits impatiently for feeling That hearty tremble now fades,That gets away of cheecks the flaming.Her breast as yet is greatly trembling,But doesn’t lade the heat of cheeks, And brighter, strickingly it heats,As well as poor moth is blending And shines like rainbowed a thingWhen him a schoolboy clips the wing, Or like a little hare’s tremblingWhen sees: a hunter from afar At him is looking so far,XLIAt last she’s very deeply sighing, From little bench is gettingis going, and when she’s trying To turn aside... is coming upJust He! His gaze on her he’s fixing, Like dreadful shade for her he’s reaching,And she, as if she’s burned by flame, Has stopped at once and looks away...But sequels of the sudden meeting To-day, my dear reader-friend,I cannot show to the end As I must go after speakingTo have a rest and have a hike, That’s why I’ll finish other time.CHAPTER FOURLa morale est dans 					la natura des choses.Necker 					The morality is 					In the nature of things.I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VIIThe less we love a pretty woman, The easier she’s liking us,The surely we may her min Among the nets of tempting fuss.The cool debauchery was known As science of the love: its ownDelights it glorifies itself, Without love it revels self.But such amusements, yet important, Are worthy of an old apeOf praised grandfather’s old age: The Lovelace fame is now rottenedWith all the fame of red high heels, With grand, magestic old wigs.VIIIWho isn’t bored to be dissembling, To tell the same who never ends?Who grandly tries but mere rambling To prove the people: eggs is eggs?Who listens to the same objections And bans the thoughts of wrong reflectionsOf girls, which never had that sin As they are only thirteen?Whom don’t bore the falseful fears, The prayers, swears, threats and hints,Love-letter secrets on six sheets, The fraud, the gossip, rings, the tears,Of many kin suspicious gaze, Of husbands friendship’s heavy haze?IXThat was the way of Eugene’s thinking.In his first youth he was untrained,Was victim of the wild misleading Of big his passions unrestrained.By habits of the life he’s pampered, By somebody he was well tempered,But others made him disappoint! The slow languid was the point.He’s languished by the hits rebuffing, Attentive in the still and noiseTo protests of soul’s voice, Suppressed his yawning by his laughing.Eight years did he kill these ways, And thus he lost of prime young days.XHe ceased to fall in love with beauties And dangled after like the rest;Himself consoled if not suited, Betrayed - was glad to have a rest,He looked for girls without passion And left them all with none compassion,Did not remember love and spite, Behaved like some indifferent guyFor evening whist who’s coming briskly, Sits down, plays not very hard,Then gets he out of the yard, At home falls asleep too quickly,At dawn who never knows yet The evening where will he spend.XIOnegin got Tatyana’s message. It quickly touched his soul’s strings:For all his thoughts it was a passage - Unusual tongue of maiden’s dreams.In thoughts her face too pale he found, She often seemed to be cast down;And into sweet and sinless dream By soul he was getting in.Of old times the heat of feeling, May be, could capture for a while;He didn’t want to cheat meanwile The trusting heart of pure being.For garden now we shall fleet In which she’s got with him to meet.XIISome minutes they were silent both, Onegin then to her came upAnd. told her:‘To me you wrote, Do not deny.I’ve read it up:Of trusting soul hard confessions, Of pure love such good expressions;I can your frankness estimate, It made my feelings agitateAnd passions which were mute and heartless; To praise yet you l don’t want;For it I shall repay a lot By my admission, truly artless;All my confessions must you take: For judgement yours I give my fate.XIII‘If I would wish to have restricted My life by family, you see,If by my lot I were convicted A husband, father just to be,If by the family best vision For instant I’d be charmed with reason,-Believe, I’d never try anew To look for better bride but. you.I’ll simply say without fevers: If previous idol I could find,Alone you, to speak my mind, I’d take as friend of days my grievous,Of all the charming for the bail And would be happy... till I fail!XI‘I’m not quite made to be much happy. My soul’s alien for bliss;Perfections yours make speech my gappy, Of them I’m not yet worthy, miss.Believe (for bail I give my conscience), The wedlock will be poignant nonsense.I might be deeply loving you, But getting used I’d run from you;Your tears, if you will be crying, Would never touch my gloomy heart,But they would madden it too hard.What roses, you can be judging,For us fine Hymen now makes And maybe yet for many days.XV‘In all the world its most badly To see in family the wifeWho’s waiting for her husband sadly Alone daily all her life.That she is good, dull husband knows But at has fate he curses throws,He’s always frowned, taciturn, He’s chilly, jealous, angry turned!That’s what I am.Indeed, you won’t With all your pure flaming heartBe glad with such a man… You smart With rare wit your letter wrote!Indeed, d’you have this kind of mate Destined to your severe. fate?XVI‘My dreams and years won’t rather Return to make me new a bit,I love you, but with love of brother And may be tenderer indeed.You listen but without anger: With time young girl will change her temper,Her easy dreams by other dreams; As well as trees can change the leavesIn early spring of every year.You see, by skies its predestined:You’ll fall in love once more and find… You learn to rule yourself: I fearNot any man can grasp such things; Ignorance many troubles brings’XVIIThis way my Eugene was her teaching.Through tears never seeing him,Without breath, with timid feeling Tatyana listened then to him.He gave his hard; in all her grievance (As they would say, it was unwitnessed)Tatyana silently curl lean, Her languid head she bent to him;Through kitchen-garden they went home; They came together; no oneDid try to make of that some fun: The country’s freedom has its ownAnd happy rights for own self Like haughty Moscow itself.XVIIIAnd you agree, my dear reader: This time like real gentlemanWith dear Tanya he was eager Himself to show honest man,Revealed his own soul simple, Meanwhile malevolance of peopleWith him was always on the bends: His enemies as well as friends(It is the same for people simple) To curse him tried this way and that.Each man has enemies, but yet From friends defend us God a littleAh, many friends were near then!With reason I remembered them.XIXAnd what?It’s right.I simply wrote Of idle, blackish dreams of mine;In brackets I would like to note: You haven’t more insulting lie,By liars secretly prepared, By worldly mob in chorus favoured,And no nonsense in the world Or epigram with brutal wordWhich friend of yours with smile of terror In circles decent, so right,Without purpose or a spite Would not repeat for days in error;With might and main he’ll you defend With love of kinsman, not of friend!XXH’m, h’m! You, generous my readers, Are all your kinsfolk o’key?You let me now my ideas To tell you all this very day.What does the kinsfolk mean namely?It means the following thing mainly:We must all time all them caress, Respect and love at heart, not less;And by the people’s usual custom On Christmas must we come to see;To be the rest of year free Congratulations are accustomed;We them remind about us...And let them God long live for us!XXIBut then, the love of tender beauties More trusty is than friendship, kin,And you have right to it, not duties, Among rebellious storms, I mean,It’s right, of course, but trends of fashion, But of the nature willful pressure,Opinions of the worldly might...And fair sex like down’s slight...Besides, opinions of the husband By very good and virtuous wifeMost be respected for the life. And true girl-friend in love’s adjustmentSometimes allured is for days: With love the Satan jokes makes.XXIIBut whom to love?Whom you’d be trusting?Who’s that, which never us betrays?Who’s helpfully for us adjusting His own deeds and when he prays,Who helps from slander not to perish?Who carefully us can cherish?To whom my vice is not a harm?Who never bores us by his charm?By those phantoms he, vain seeker, Should not in vain exhaust himself:You first of alt must love yourself, My dear venerable reader!Such subject’s worthy of your mind: More gentle never you will find.XXIIIWhat was the sequence of the meeting?Alas, it’s easy to divine!Of love mad sufferings she’s feeling . Without ceasing for a whileIn young sad soul’s aspirations; And yet much more with dismal passionsTatyana poor is in heat; in bed she never falls asleep;The health, the prime of life, its sweetness, The smile, the innocent calm ease,-Ali that has gone like sound’s fizz, And dear Tanya’s youth all dwindles:The shade of coming storm this way Is darkening all the breaking day.XXIVAlas, Tatyana’s daily fading: She’s paling, sinking and is mute,She’s nothing ever entertaining, For life she wouldn’t give a hoot..All heads are now grandly shaking The neighbours whisper (they are wailing):It’s time, its time to marry her!But it’s enough to speak of her:I’d cheer up imagination By picture where love yet strives.Unwittingly, you see, the lives Confuse yet me with incarnation;Forgive me, but my love is deep To Tanya’s dear heart indeed.XXVEach minute more is captivated By Olga’s beauty so young,By bondage Lensky’s fascinated, Gave up his soul to the fun.With her he’s ever in her chamber Until the daylight turns more fainter;Or in the garden hand in hand They walk at morning so grand;And what?By love intoxicated, Embarrassed by the tender shame,Sometimes he dares like in game, By smile of Olga animated,To play by her untwisted lock, To kiss the edge of Olga’s frock.XXVISometimes to Olga he is reading With morals novel for herself,Whose author bolter nature’s feeling Than Chateaubriand does himself.Meanwhile some two or three of pages (Some idle gibberish or fables,But dangerous for the maiden’s heart) Quite reddenning he’s missing up.They are alone far from people, Are playing at the board of chess,On table leaning with slight press, Are sitting, lost in thought. a little,And own pawn with own rook Distracted Lensky there took,XXVIIWhen he’s at home, always there By Olga is he kept all day.Of album leaflets with his care To decorate he works away;In them he draws the country whole, The Kyprid’s temple, graves alone:Or on the lyre draws a dove With pens and paints, with all his love;Or on the leaves for recollections, Of other signatures beneathHis own tender verse he leaves Like monument to his affections,Of instant thought some slight a trace, But of the same for years race.XXVIIIOf course, for times you have been seeing A country maiden’s album big,Which by the girl-friends had been scribbling From start, from end in any twig.In it, in spite of rules of spelling Excessive verse, as they are telling,As sign of friendship’s written in, Continued, lessened for the whim.The first of leaflets just can show: Qu’ecrirez-vous sur ces tablettes;It’s signed by t.a.v.Annette; And on the last one you read so:Who loves you more than I can do Must here write a verse anew.XXIXWithout fail you’ll find them here: Two hearts, the blooms, the torch’s rays;You’ll find some vowes to the dear To love her until dying days.Some poet from ranks of army Signed verse of villaine, though charming.To such an album, being tight, If to confess, I’d like to write,With all my soul being sure That any rubbish, done with zeal,Will get some favourable deal, And afterwards they’ll not endureMaliciously discuss with smiles: If I was sharp or dull in lies,XXXBut uncoordinated volumes From devil’s library all got,And albums perfect but enormous, Of stylish rhymers racking lot,You all, whom decorated guickly Tolstoy with brush such wondrous, sweatily,Or Baratinsky with his pen,- Let be you birnt by thunder then!When some respiended dear lady To give in quatro me yet tries,I am engulfed by trembling vice: An epigram is being readyAt bottom of my soul fast... But give them madrigal at last!XXXINot madrigals my Lensky’s writing In Olga’s album, and indeedHis pen with love is always sighing Without coolness of the wit:He writes of all that he can hear Or see of Olga in the near,And full of truth which he can meet His elegies like rivers fleet.Thus you, Yazykov, always wrote In gust of passion of your heart,God knows, whom by words you dart; Of elegies the precious codeSometimes will give you all the rate Of all your own real fate.XXXIIBut hist!D’you hear?Critic strictly Demands from us: be getting ridOf elegy’s bad garland quickly; To all the rhymers, friends indeed,He shouts: ‘Stop your own crying And croaking the same, and whining,And always pity of the past; Enough, of other sing you fast!’-it’s right, but may be you will show The pipe, the dagger and the man;Of thoughts dead capital again To raise from dead you’ll give a hope;Is not it so, friend?- Not, then!You write the odes, gentlemen,XXXIIIAs they them wrote many years Of might, as it through ages came..’-Just solemn odes you could hear!Enough, my friend, its all the same!-What said the satirist, remember!Is cunning liric, who can renderThe ‘else’s trends’, for you the best Among dull rhymers and the rest? -‘But all the elegies are mere A trifle, aimless idle talk,Meanwhile they most be not a mock, But honourable..!’ - l could hereGive arguments, but I do not: To quarrel ages don’t want.XXXIVAdorer of the glory, freedom, Immersed in own stormy thought,Vladimir could have odes written, - To road them Olga never got.Did happen any bard in tears To deer love to read with fearsHis own works?They say, they’d got For that the best in world reward.Indeed, he’s blessed, the lover tranquil, Who can explain his own dreamsTo object of his love and hymns, To beauty dear, nicely languid.He’s blessed... But may be she has been Amused by other, not by him.XXXVBut I my fruits of dreams am reading, And my harmonious ventured verseAlone to my nurse, who’s being My old friend from youth and forth.And after rather tedious dinner, When I, refreshing own inner,Could catch a neighbour, who by chance Came in - by tragedy at once Him entertained.Without jokes By bore and rhyme depressed, all dayI’m hiking round pretty lake, Some flocks of ducks by chance awoke,And listening Id my singing rhyme From banks they all together fly.XXXVI, XXXVIIAnd what’s Onegin doing?Brothers!I ask: be patient for a time;His everyday employments rather In details I should well describe.In summer Eugene lived like hermit: Past six was getting up in hamlet,And to the river, lightly clad Beneath the mounting he went;The Gulnare’s singer imitating Across this Hellespont could swim:At home coffee used to drink; Were poor journals for him waiting.And then he dressed himself...XXXVIII, XXXIXA sound sleep, the walks, the reading. The forest shade, of brooks the hiss, -Sometimes with pretty girl a meeting, A young and fresh unwaited kiss,The horse for rider proved obedience, The dinner rather well fastidious,A bottle of some light sweet wine, Some solitude, the stillness fine:Onegin’s life is somewhat sacred; And he, unfeeling, was to itAll given up in summer heat. To count days he simply hated,Forgot the town and the friends, And boredom of the festive blends.XLBut all the nothern Russian summer Of south winter bad burlesque:Appeared-vanished quickly rather, We gee, but don’t we. confess.With autumn skies were dayly breathing, Not every day the sun was gleaming,Each day was shorter at the noon, The secret canopy of woodWith grievous noise became all naked, The tog was falling on the fields,The caravan of crying geese For south fleeted. And unwaitedThe time was coming, dull and hard: November stood in front of yard.XLIAt break of dawn the night is cold; In cornfields work has ceased away;With his she-wolf, in hunger bold, A wolf is coming to the way;Him scenting, horses on the road All snort, and travellers quickly hold:You’d better hurry up away. The shepherd at the break of dayDoes not make cows go out, And when at noon they are forlone,He doesn’t gather them with horn. A maiden’s singing in her house,She spins; a friend of winter night The splinter’s crackling making light.XLIIBut nowadays the frosts are crackling (A rhyme for cra.ckling, one foresees;Its here: take it and be ‘tackling’ !) All look like silver snowy fields...More pretty than a parquette fashioned, The river, clad in ice, is flashy,And many boys with joyful cries Are scaring on sonorous ice;On reddish paws a goose, such heavy, To get to waters wants to swim:With care steps on icy brim And slips, and falls; all fluffy, merryThe snowflakes are flashing, whirl, Like stars at river’s banks they fall.XLIIISuch time what can you do in village?To walk?The seasons country viewsUnwittingly may bore by image Of its monotonous naked hues.To ride a horse in steppe severe?But then your horse will try in fearTo scratch unfaithful icy path As he’s afraid to fall at last.Deserted room alone filling You read; it’s Pradt, it’s Walter Scott.You don’t want? - check up your cost, Or grudge, or drink, and thus the eveningWill pass away more fast, they tell, And you will pass the winter well.XLIVLike Harold Child Onegin’s fallen Into the thoughtful lazy haze:From bed to icy bath had fallen And afterwards was whole daysEngaged alone with accounts; Or, taking cue like somewhat armours,At own billiard with two balls He played from morning one for all.But when to country comes the evening The billiard, cues are left again,At fire-place the table’s lain: Onegin’s waiting - Lensky’s speedingOn roan horses, three abrest; Arid let’s have dinner before rest!XLVOf ‘Clicquot widow’ or ‘Moet` Some blessed and fine the dry white wineIn icy bottle for the poet Sometimes is brought at proper time.I — It sparkles by Hippocrene’s role, It was by own play and foam(Which seemed to be like this and that) Me captivating; and for thatI last and poor mite was giving For you myself, remember this;But its magestic merry fizz Caused foolishness and some misgiving,And many verses, jokes, whims, And arguments, and merry dreams.XLVIBut it betrays with froth imprudent My stomack. I have never soughtIt now; but ‘Bordeaux’ prudent To-day to others nave prefered.Some wines to me are not ajusted, Remind a lady-lover rusted,Which’s shiny, windy and alive, But selfish, idle, thirsts for thrive.And you, ‘Bordeaux’ you came friendly, Like friend in trouble and in grief,You are like comrade, 1 believe, To help are ready always gently,Can share stillness of pastimes; Long live‘Bordeaux’ all the times!XLVIIThe fire’s dead; and under ashes Like gold is the coal’s crust;A jet of steam yet hardly flashes, its whirling, vanishes at last.The fire-place is fading...Smoke From pipes to chimney flies.A bowlOn table’s hissing yet, forlorn...The evening darkness comes along...I like the friendly idle speakings And friendly howl of sweet wine(At season, which is called meanwhile The time of wolf and dog for meetings,But why? I don’t grasp it yet). And now friends enjoy a chat..XLUIII‘But how are Tatyana, neighbours, And Olga, frisky pretty girl?’- To pour half-glass you do a favour...Enough, my dear...Healthy all...Regards of them to you I’m giving.Ah, dear, all my inner feelingAdores my Olga: figure, breast!You’ll see: they all become the boshLet’s visit them; you’ll be obliging: Or otherwise you judge yourself:You came two times, but then of self You don’t make them yet remindingAnd thus... But what a fool I am I They call you: come next week to them.-XLIX‘Me?’ - Yes, Tatyana’s name-day happy Will be on Saturday...They call, And no reason, even gappy, You have for not to come at all.-‘But they will have a throng of people And all the other rabble feeble..?.-But no one...Pm sure... none, They’ll be the family, the one.Let’s go, do thorn such a favour!And what? -‘Agreed’ - You... dear guy!And saying so, made he dry A glass to health of dear neighbour,And then was speaking of the same: Of Olga, dear love, again!LWith joy he knew: for wedding carriage Two weeks ahead was fixed above.The secrets of the bed of marriage, The garlands of the sweetest loveFor his delight were just awaiting.But Hymen’s troubles, griefs of mating,The yawnings, other cold things He never saw in any dreams.Meanwhile we all. of Hymen foes, In home life yet see but oneAnd boring pictures’ row, done In style of La Fontaine’s sweet novels.My poor Lensky with his heart For such a life was born, young bard.LIHe was beloved.., at least was grateful To have such hope like a balm.A hundred times is blessed, who’s faithful. Who’s got his wit to be quite calm,Reposes in heart contentment Like drunkard, spending night for payment,Or tenderer - like little moth Which sucks spring flower with force;But wretched is, who’s all foreseeing, Who never felt some ache of head,Who hates the moving and the word When you translate him their meaning;Whose knowledge makes his heart all cool Arid him forbids to play the fooltCHAPTER FIVEOh, don’t know dreadful dreams You, my young SvetlanaZhookovskyIThat year pretty autumn weather Too long was staying on in yard,The winter had been longed by nature, In January it snowed hard.On day the third at early morning Tatyana saw and was adoring:The yard was under snow dense: Parterres, roofs and all the fence;The panes with patterns are like marvel, By snow flocks are covered trees,Some merry magpies Tanya sees, All mountains were smoothly coveredBy winter carpets, snow-made.All’s blight, all’s white without shade.IIIt’s winter!..Young triumphant peasant On wooden sledge renews the way.His horse the snow feels at present, Its trotting, lazily away.A brave sledge-cart from field’s returning, It’s fluffy furrows upturning,The coachman’s on -box with lash In sheepskin coat and red sash.A yard boy’s running in the middle, He made his dog in sledge to sitWhile he prefered to play a steed. His finger’s frozen a little,It hurts, he laughs, through window-panes At him his mother’s finger shakes.IIIBut may be those kinds of pictures By now can’t you all attract,As they are mean and simple features, You won’t see fine art in that.But blessed by God of inspiration Another one in. rhymes of fashion.Described for us the snowfall, {l5} The winter’s bliss and tinges all:He’ll fascinate you, I am sure, By picturing in flaming verseThe secret drives in sledge rehearse; But I am ready to endureThe peaceful life with him and you, Who pictured Finnish frosts anew.IVTatyana (Russian in her soul, Herself she doesn’t know why)With all her cooling beauty lone Did like the Russian winter fine:The rime on frosty days yet sunlit; And sledges; and before the sunsetThe snow’s rose shining charm; On Christmas evenings hazy calm.Of old age triumphant customs At home were supported hard:All servant maidens in the yard To guess the fortune were accustomed,Each year guessed for misses much: From army husbands and the march.VTatyana trusted legend’s fancies Of simple folk’s old times.And dreams as well as cartomancies, The moons predictions in the skies.By many signs she’s always worried, In secret way all objects hurriedTo tell her something of the rest; Misgivings hardly squeezed her breast.If mincing cat, on stove sitting, While purring could his muzzle wash,For her the truthful sign it was That guests are coming.If she’s seeingA young two-horned the moon at sky, But at unusual left the side,VIShe all is trembling, paling, shying.And when a falling shining starAlong the darkish sky is flying To scatter in the sky afar,In great confusion she is hastening, While falling star yet isn’t fading,The wish of heart to whisper her.And when sometimes in front of herA monk in black by chance appears, Or quick a hare in the fieldsHer way is crossing, then she feels Herself embarrased; and of tears,Of sad misgivings she is full, Foresees misfortunes as a rile.VIIWell, she had found charming secret In sense of horror by itself:Each one by nature is restricted By contradictions in himself.The Christmas tide for joy is coming!To guess the windy youth is tryingWhich doesn’t pity any things, In front of which the life yet isImmense and light, at distance waiting; Through glasses old people guessThe end of life; of loss confess With no hopes for regaining:But all the same, the hope them With baby-talk is lying then.VIIITatyana’s interest is affected By melting on the fire wax:It shows traceries affective, Informs of mind’s the secret backs.From saucers, filled with clear waters Some rings get out as on trottersTo her they gave a little ring, An old song began to sing:All peasants-men there are enriching, They get the silver with a spade,We sing of their lucky fate And glory!- All they are yet feelingSome loss in all the song’s refrains: The song of cat is best for maids.IXThe night is frosty, skies are clear, Of all the heaven’s bodies lightAll flows in a single gear...Tatyana to the yard, such wide,In open light dress comes out, At moon her mirror’s aiming down,But darkish mirror can reflect The trembling moon alone yet...The snow’s crackling... someone’s near... On her tiptoe fast she fliesAnd asks him stilly, sweetly sighs More tenderer than reed-pipe dear:What is your name? - He’s looking on, At last he answers: - Aghaphon…XTatyana took advice of nanny; As she in bath-room had to guessShe ordered secretly her granny: Prepare table for a guest...At once was frightened my Tatyana...And I, while thinking of Swetlana,Was too afraid, I must confess...But with Tatyana shan’t we guess.Her belt of silk she is removing, Undressed is going to bed,And Lei is soaring above head: And under pillow unmovingHer maiden’s mirror yet she keeps.It all is still.Tatyana steeps.XITatyana has a dream unknown: As if she lone were to getAcross a glade, all under snow Around which all’s dark and sad.In snow-drifts in front of maiden A stream is boiling, all is raging,Makes noise, is dark and grey, quite lost Yet isn’t frozen by frost.Two poles glued by halves of floe (Disastrous, trembling little aid)Across the torrent have been laid. In front of noisy gulf of flow,By deep embarrassment fulfilled She has to stop, she’s standing still.XIIAs at the reason of the parting Tatyana’s grumbling at the brook,She doesn’t see yet any party Which could be helpful in the hook.The snow-drift at once is moving...And who, d’you think, from it is looking?Some big and shaggy bear comes .. Tatyana: ‘Ah!’ But he becomesPolite; with sharp-clawed paw he’s rapping Her hand to offer help; she bendsAnd leans on him with trembling hands; All fearful she’s shyly steppingBut crosses bridge; her helping her: She runs… the bear’s after her!XIIIOf looking back she doesn’t dare And hurries up, she’s quickening steps,But from. the shaggy lackey-bear She cannot get away, She flaps:The bear drags behind and groans; In front of them she sees and moans:A forest stands; a stout pine Is still and frowned, yet is fineWith flocks of snow; through the crowns Of naked birches from the skyThe heaven’s bodies beam and shine. The bushes, chutes without boundsAre snow-bound by the storm. In depth of snow are forlorn.XIVShe runs for forest... he’s about; The flabby snow is knee-deep;Her neck was caught by long a bough, Then branches could her ears meetAnd rent the ear-rings of gold; Then brittle snows fastly holdHer summer shoes quite wet through all; Then she her handkerchief lets fall.To take it up she can’t, in fear Of bear: he about hangs;And even by her trembling hands To lift her dress ashamed she's here;She’s running - he is after her; She can’t be running any more,XVShe falls on snow - he is swifty: He’s taking her in paws and brings,And she insensibly is drifting, She doesn’t move and doesn’t breathe;He speeds her up the forest road; Through trees is seen a dwelling old,It’s in the backwoods and it all Is bound by the snow-fall,Its window is brightly shining, Inside much noise and fuss they’ve had;‘There is my crony, he said, To warm yourself you must be trying!’To inner porch he goes fast, He’s laying down her at last.X U1When she recovered she is looking: Some inner porch... the bear's gone;She hears rings of glasses, hooping Like at the funeral great, long.Not seeing any use of porches Through chink she now stilly watches;What does she see? that at the boards Are sitting spooks of any sorts:One’s horned, with muzzle of a hound; Another has of cock the head;With goat’s beard sits a hag; She sees sceleton stiff and proud,A dwarf with tail; and there’s that Who’s half-a-crane and half-a-cat.XVIIBut that’s more wonderful and dreadful: A crayfish on a spider rides,At goose’s neck a skull is fateful, It’s whirling round for all sides;A mill is squatting in the dancing, By wings it crackles, flaps, is glancing.They bark and laugh, they whistle, clap, They sing and speak, like horses stamp:But what Tatyana could he thinking When recognized among the guestsHer love but fright nevertheless, Main person of this novel pretty!Onegin’s sitting at the board By stealth is looking at the door.XVIIIHe makes a sign and all they bother; He drinks and all they drink and cry;He laughs - they all are laughing further: He frowns - all are srient, wry.That he’s the head - it all is clear And Tanya has much less of fear;Of interest she is now full And tries herself the door to pull…But suddenly the wind has blown Away the lire of all lamps:Are troubled house-spirit gangs; Onegin’s eyes make tire own,He’s rumbling, quickly he gets up, For door he nears, ail got up.XIXShe got afraid and in a hurry Tatyana tries away to flyAnd can’t; she’s now deeply worrier!, She moans and she’d like to cry...But can’t: through door her Eugene enters; In front of eyes of Hades’ spectresThe girl appeared! Laugh was wild!. They all stood gaping for a while,Then hoofs, wry trunks, it let alone The tufted tails, the fangs in mugs,The whiskers and the bloody tongues, The horns and fingers made of bone -All point at her, such young and fine, And all they cry: ‘It’s mine! Its mine’XX‘It’s mine!’ the voice of Eugene thunders! And all the gang has vanished fast.She stayed in frosty tone darkness: Young maiden is with Him at last.Onegin stilly her is helping And in the corner is her layingOn shaky bench, and own head To Tanya’s shoulder he bends;But suddenly her sister’s coming, Then Lensky comes; the light has flashed;With threat Onegin raised his hand And wildly with his eyes is shining;He curses all unbidden guests; And half alive she can’t have breath..XXIThey argue louder; he’s getting Some long a knife; in short a whileHe’s killing Lensky; horrid shading Lays down, then a dreadful cryIs heard; the dwelling all is shaking...In horror Tanya is awaking...She sees: the room is light again, Through window’s a frosty paneOf dawn the ray all crimson sparkles And Olga opens the door;Like North Aurora’s face of her, And like a butterfly she flutters.‘But now tell;’ she says, ‘to me: Whom did you see in dream with me?’XXIIAt sister Tanya isn’t looking; She lies in bed; a book she hasAnd leaf by leaf through it is looking But nothing to her sister says...This kind of book yet doesn’t show The writer’s fancies in a row,Nor pictures nor a wisdom thought That Virgin or Racine had got,Nor Scott, nor Byron, nor Seneka; The Lady’s Fashion Journal hadLess influence on lady’s head; It was, my friends, Martyn Zadeka,The head of Chaldean wise men, — Of dreams the fortune-teller then.XXIIIThis thoughtful, interesting creation By travelling merchant them was broughtOne day to their isolation And for Tatyana they then bought:Malvina’s works but separated For several roubles he abated,And in addition gave to them Collection of plain fables then, With them two Pentads, a grammar.Marmontel’s volume them he gave.Martin Zadeka then became The pet of Tanya, and foreverHe comforts her in all her griefs And constantly with her he sleeps.XXIVThat dream aroused her misgivings.Not grasping ways to understandOf dreadful fancy all the meanings Tatyana wants to find the end.In book’s short contents, finds she out Some words that should explain aboutThe dreams: fir-trees, the hag, the bores, The East, the bear, snow-stormsEtcetera.Her real doubt Zadeka never could resolve!Her dream is sinister, it all At sad adventures pointed out.And several days she after that Had been entroubled, deeply sad.XXVBy crimson hand not seen by now The dawn from morning towards the layHas brought. the sun and anyhow The merry festival name-day .An Lane’s home from the morning Is full of guests, of kin adoring:All neighbours came by closed sleigh, By hooded carts, by britzkas, sledge...In afternoon they squash and crowd, In drawing room they meet new face;The barks, the smacks of kissing maids, The crush, the laugh, the noise are loud.All bow, shuffle, gladly smile, Wet-nurses scream, the babies cry.XXVIWith own wife that’s very portly Came stout Pustyakov at last;Gvozdin, good master, who could shortly Make beggars of his peasants fast.Grey-haired couple of Scotinin With all the children you’d be seeingFrom two to thirty years on; The district dandy Petushkóv,With him my cousin first Buyánov, All fuzzy, wears peaky cap,(Of course you him alredy met;) And counsellor retired Flyánov,The greatest gossip, old cheat, The glutton, grafter, fool a bit.XXVIIWith Kharlikóv Panfíl and children Monsieur Triquet arrived, a wit,Who left Tambóv without hindrance, He wears glasses, brown wig.In pocket he, as Frenchman real, Has brought for his Tatyana dear,The lilt, well known round me: Reveilles vous, belle endormie.Among the songs in books decrepit Somewhere issued was that lilt; Triquet with poet’s keen wit For world from dust that rhyme extracted,Was brave instead of ‘elle Nina’ To put the ‘belle Tatiana’XXVIIIBy now from a distant village The idol of the ladies ripe,For district mothers pleasant image - The regimental chief arrived.He came, What news, such sentimental!Well have the music regimental!The colonel sent it for the chance.What joy: to-day we’ll have to dance!The girls are jumping all around.Its time for dinner, Guests have hadTo come to tables hand in hand.Around Tanya ladies crowd,The men confront. All cross in peace. The throng, all humming, takes the seats.XXIXThe talks are saved for time much better: The mouths chew, From every sideThe plates and covers jointly clatter, The glasses clink, all filled with wine.But in a while the guests from suburb Are making up a common hubbub:They don’t listen to, they cry, They argue, laugh and squeak in fright.And suddenly my Lensky enters, With hire Onegin.‘Ah, my Lord!’,The mistress cries, ‘At last you’ve got!’In crowd everybody renders:They take away the chairs, plates, Them call, they give the friends a place.XXXAgainst Tatyana in a row They sit. Of morning moon more paleShe’s trembling like persued a doe, Her darkening eyes she hides awayFrom them: she new blazes greatly, She feels herself in passion badly;She’s deaf for greetings of the friends; To hide her tears quickly bendsHer head; is seeming to be ready For deep a faint, this being mild;But will and power of mind All overcame, and she alreadySome words, yet stilly, tries to say, But at the table could she stay.XXXIFor long Onegin couldn't bear That tragical and nervous moodOf girls, the tears, faints not rare: Enough he had them all en route.Like crank by chance at feast enormous He’s angry.And Tatyana’s nervousAnd trembling state is seen by him; All vexed, he’s being in a whim.He’s puffing, he is remonstrating, He swore to devil Lensky’s head For sufferings, he here had.Already for triumph he’s waiting,And he invents by whim’s requests Caricatures of the guests.XXXIIOf course, Onegin’s not alone, Who saw her disarray in eyes,But aim of looks and talks on whole That time at feast are fatty pies(Unhappily, too much all salted). But. with the help of resin bottled,Between blancmanger and roasts fine They now bring the Tsimlyan wine.With narrow and long wine-glasses, Reminding slander waist of yours,Zhizhi, my soul’s crystal first, The subject of naive my passes,Enticing goblet for my love, Its you, who made me drunk with love,XXXIIIAnd now, free from humid stopper, Each bottle bangs and all the wineCan hiss; with bearings important, By couplets tortured all the time,Triquet gets up; the whole meeting The deepest silence now’s keeping.Tatyana hardly sighs, the man Addresses her with verse in handAnd falsely sings, Applauds and crying Are greeting him.And she has hadTo reverence for singing that; The poet, such great but shying.To her is drinking first, his rhyme He gives to Tanya at that time.XXXIVFor greetings and congratulations She gives each one her thankful look.But when her thanks for termination To Eugene came, tier languid mood,Embarrassment, her being tired Arosed pity, he’s admired;He mutely bowed to the girl, His gaze somehow was in allSuch charming, tender.Was she feeling; That he then really was moved,Or, like coquette, he simply boomed? By his good will Or willy-nillyHe showed tenderness. Such start Enlivens poor Tama’s heart.XXXVThe driven chairs noise arouse; All throng has rushed to anter-roomAs well as bees from tasty house With noise are flying for the bloomAll satisfied at feast by dinner The neighbours puff in room, the inner;The ladies sit at fire-place; You see in corners whispering maids;.Green tables are prepaired now, All active players they invite:For boston, lomber come in sight, For whist, well famous until now.They all are family the same, The sons of greedy bore at game.XXXVIThey now play the eighth of roberts, Of whist the braves; eight times in lineThey all replaced for each of roberts; The tea’s been brought.I could defineThe time of day by tea or dinner, Or supper.Every country eaterCan know time without fuss: The stomach is the watch for us.In brackets to the point I’d note: In all my verses, by my rhymeAbout feasts, enormous, fine, About meals and corks I wroteLike idol, - you, Omir divine, - For three millenniums in line,XXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIXThe tea’s been brought; the quiet maidens Are taking saucers into hand,At once behind the door awakens The sound of bassoon from band:Enjoyed by thunder of the music From tea with rum at once refusing,The Pans of the district girls, With Olga Petushkóv then whirls,With Tanya Lensky; Kharlikóva, The bride of more than ripening age,By hard from big Tambóv’s engaged; Buyhánov whirls with Pustyakóva,The rest all gathered at the hail: Of ball the beuaty shines for all.XLAt the beginning of my novel — (In chapter first you look it all)I’d like to use the Alban’s model: In Petersburg to show ball.But then, amused by idle dreamings, Attended to my better feelingsOf known ladies feet and legs.But by your narrow small tracks,Ah, feet, in vain I was affected.The further I’m from youth my gay,The wiser I should get each day: My deeds and rhymes to have corrected,And even this my chapter five — From all digressions to refine.XLIMonotonous and sometimes yet senseless, Like whirlwind of the youthful lives,The waltz is whirling; noisy, taintless, A couple after couple flies.The time revengeful now nears, In secret Eugene gaily sneers,Comes up to Olga: several jests, And they are whirling near guests.Then he for her a chair’s finding, They speak about this and that,And several minutes after that With her the waltz again he’s dancing.All are amazed, my Lensky sighs, Does not believe his own eyes.XLIIMazurka’s sounding.It happened. When thunder of mazurka came,The halls enormous is all then trembled, The parquet’s cracks wee heard again.The frames were shaking, trembling there But nowadays the men, like fairYoung ladies on the floor all glide But yet in towns, countrysideMazurka now all its rating, Initiative beauties keeps:The jumps, moustache, the clicks of heels Are all the same without changingBy worst of modes: modern fuss, Which is a tyrant for us.XLIII, XLIVBuyánov, my quick-temperd brother, To Eugene brought two girls at once:With Olga Tanya; quickly rather Onegin Olga took for dance.He rules her, but neglectly gliding, And, bending, whispers her his finding:Some madridgal of old days, And presses hand; at once her faceIn proud, touching inflammation Is blushing crimson.Lensky sawAll those changes. All the more He, full of jealous indignation,Is waiting for the end of dance, And for cotillion her invites.XLVBut yet she can’t.And what’s the reason?Ah, Olga gave the word to him,Onegin.Goodness me, it isn’t For him to hear!What a whim...Impossible!?She’s mere infant, But yet coquette! A giddy instance!And. so cunny, she is gay. Already’s able to betray!He can’t endure such a blow; The whims of women he can curse.Gets out, asks for own horse And rides.Two pistols in a row,Two bullets - fitting at this rate - Will quickly settle all his fate.CHAPTER SIXLa, sotto i giorni nubilosi e brevi, 			Nasce una gente a cui i’morir non dole.Petrarka 			Where days are cloudy and short 			A tribe was there born 			For which to die makes no hurt. (It.)IBut when Vladimir disappeared, Onegin, languished by the bore,Was lost in thought; to Olga near Revengeful words said no more.And Olga’s yawning; round here She’s looking for her Lensky dear.For her cotillion now seems Like long and heavy dreadful dreams,At last it stopped.All have the supper.The beds are made. And any guestHas own place to have a rest, From porch to maiden’s.All they utterA need for sleep.Onegin my To sleep at home lone flied.IIAll’s now calm; in rooms you hear: Is snoring heavy PustyakóvWith own heavy hall, his dear; Gvozdín, Buyánov, PetushkóvAnd Flyanov who is not quite healthy, On chairs in a room are wealthy.Monsieur Triquet is on the floor, In jersey, capped, not far from door.In Tanya’s, Olga’s rooms all maidens Already happy dreams have had;At window alone, sad (Diana’s ray lights up, her wakens)My poor Tanya sits, can’t sleep, And looks into the darkling field.IIIBy his anwaited apparition, By instant tenderness of eyes,By got by Olga strange tuition She’s touched, in depth of soul sighs;She’s been embarrassed, cannot now Him understand yet anyhow;She’s troubled by the jealous trend: As if some cold foe’s handCan press her heart, or a misfortune, That waits for her, is black, makes noise.‘I’ll perish, - says my Tanya’s voice - From him to die is pleasant fortune.I don’t grudge: why should I grudge?He can’t give happiness at large’.IVBut forward, forward, you, my story!My muse new person just reveals.Some several miles from Krasnogóry, From Lensky’s village, there livesAnd is alive yet for the present, In philosophical sense desert,Zarétsky, brawler; they believe: Of gambling gang he was the chief,The chief of rakes, a tribune-tippler. — Hut now simply good the headOf family; not married yet; A real friend, a landlord, ripper;To honest people he belongs: This way the century reforms!VA smooth-tongued voice of world, it happened, His evil bravery could praise:From pistol he, not being rattled, At fifteen metres stuck the ace.But he at real field of action Himself white raptured by affectionDistinguished: bravely to the slush From Kalmyk horse he fell in rush.Like drunkard tight by real Frenchmen Was captivated (dear lot!).New Regulus (of honour God) Anew he could the bonds abandon:At Verrey’s every morning’s time On credit drank three quarts of wine.VIHe joked in a funny manner, Could fool an idiot for fun,Could make of clever fool for ever, Explicit or implicit one.Sometimes himself for tricks on others Was given lessons by the others;Sometimes himself, not as a rule, Could he entrapped like real fool;For merry dispute he was able To be in answers dull or sharp,Sometimes could keep his answer dark; Sometimes a quarrel could enableTo make the friends embroiled become, Made friends to barrier to come;VIITo have a breakfast three together Could make them quickly reconcile,And then in secret could defame them By merry jest or real he.‘Sed alia temporal’ But rudeness (Like dream of love, the prank of goodness)With youthful years gets away, And my Zaretsky, I would say,Behind accacias, bird cherries From storms is hidden in his den,Can live like real wise a ma7i: Like that Horatius with cabbageHis geese and ducks tie breeds for fee And teaches children ABC.VIIIHe’s not a fool; Onegin, grudging, Did not respect the heart of his;But liked the spirit of his judging, Judicious talks of that and this.And he with pleasure long ago Was meeting him; that’s why at borneWas not astonished at the dawn To see him coining to his hall;But after first cordial greeting Zaretsky’s silent for a whileAnd to Onegin with wry smile From poet he gives for reading A leaf.Onegin, standing up, At window it all read up.IXIt was an honourable, pleasant A challenge, or cartel quite short,It was polite and not discrepant: For duel Lensky called, in short.Onegin at the first admission To agent of such secret missionReturned; without extra word always ready - shortly said.Zaretsky was explains refusing; To stay for long he didn’t want:At home had to work a lot; And he went out; but my EugeneAlone with his soul’s self Unsatisfied was by himself.XIt serves him right: to think if strictly, If secret judge for him to call,He was to blame at times more thickly: At first, he wasn’t right at allThat he at love such timid, tender Last evening joked like offender;Then let the poet enraged To play the fool: at his teenageIt is forgivable.Onegin Who loved the youth with all his heartHimself should show as the hard Without prejudices headingNot flaming boy for fighting fit But male with honour and the wit.XIHe could his feelings there show But not to bristle like a beast.No should disarm him long ago, That young a soul.But at leastIt’s late, the time has gone; his letter To rue was brought; the whole matterIs spoiled by old duels fan, He’s evil, gossip, talking man...Of course, he thinks, ‘I could be scornful To alt his funny, lying word;But whisper, laugh of fools can hurt..’Opinion of the public mournful!The spring of honour, idol last!Yet does it whirl the world and us:XIIBy eager enmity exited Vladimir for the answer waits.Eloquent man, by him invited, Triumphantly the answer trails.And now jealouser’s triumphant!He was afraid of being answeredIn form of merry, pretty jest With somewhat ruse, to have the breastOf enemy from pistol parried.But now doubts all are solved:For mill they all have had resolved At dawn in time to come in carriageWith friend a pistol fight to launch, To aim at temple or at haunch.XIIIAs he to hate coquette decided Excited Lensky didn’t wantBefore the fight to be invited... At watch, the sun he’s looking on...At last he gave it up, and failing, Himself he found at her dwelling.He thought she would be much confused, By his arrival much abused;But riot at all: like long ago For poor bard is on the watchHis Olga’s jumping from the porch Like feather-brained and trail a hope:She’s playful, careless and gay, Well, just the same as every day.XIV‘What for you early disappeared?’Was asking Olya him at onceMy Lensky’s feelings all were smeared, He was afraid at her to glance.Annoyance, jealousy could vanish In front of eyes with clear relish,In front of tenderness quite plain, In front of soul playful, frail...He looks al her with tender ardour; He’s yet beloved with previous force,He’s now languished by remorse, He’s being ready to beg pardon,He’s trembling, loses fitting words, He’s happy, has improved his health,XV, XVI, XVIIAgain he, downcast and thoughtful, In front of dear Olga stands;It seems to him like something awful To her remind all evening gaps.He thinks of here:‘I’ll be defender; I’ll not endure when offenderBy fire of the praise and sighs To tempt the heart of girl yet tries:Or when a worm disdained and deadly Is growing out lily’s stemOf morning flower which then At halt of life must wither faintly’.My Friends, you know, what it means: With friend of mine I’ve shooting things.XVIIIAh, if he knew, by what a cruel Offence. Tatyana’s heart was burnt!It Tanya knew of near duel, At least the day before had heardThat Eugene and his friend Vladimir At dawn will argue their livingOn earth, then might be by her love She’d joined the friends the day above!But no man in all the district Could ever know of that fuss:Onegin was as mute as dust, Tatyana pined for love in secret;It could be known by the nurse But slow-witted all she was.XIXAll evening Lensky was distracted, Was now silent, now gay;The man, by muses once affected, As usual frowns alt the day.At clavichords he had been sitting, But only for chords was fitting;At Olga then he fixed his gaze And whispered: ‘I’ve my happy days...’But it is late, it’s time to go...His heart is pressed, fulfilled with bore,At time of parting furthermore It beats like ready just to blow.At him she stares all the way:‘What’s happened?’- `Nothing’… - Gets away.XXAt home he took out pistols To check them up, then put them backInto the box; he now bristles; Undressed, he took some Shiller’s work.To read... but thoughts yet make him wonder His heart is sad but doesn’t slumber,With unaccountable charms He sees his Olga in his arms...Vladimir has the book to close; He takes a pen: his verse has gotA lot of pretty loving rot; He it declaims; the sound flowsAway in lirical a heat, He cites like Delvig, drunk at feast.XXIBy chance his verse yet anyhow Is kept by me; you read this rhyme;‘Where are, where are withdrawn you now The golden days of life my prime?What does next day for me prepare?In vain I try to be aware,The depth of mist can it conceal, Of fate right law will it revealBut shall I fall by shaft through pierced Or will it pass beside, will slip?All’s good: for vigil and for sleep Will come the hour well geared;Are blessed the troubles of the day, Is blessed the darkness of the gravelXXIIBy rays of day will shine the morning And brightly will be playing clay,But I, it may be, not adoring Will see the secrets of the grave,The memory of bard, yet youthful, Will sink into oblivion truthful,The world will me forget, but you My charming girl, will ever youSome tears shed at urn my early: ‘He tell in love with me,’ to thinksTo me alone could he bring His dawn of life, such sad and stormy!’My hearty friend, my friend beloved, You come, I’m husband yours by love!"XXIIIHis verse is sluggish and obscure (It’s called romanticism by us;To see it here even poor I cannot; does it bother us?)At last before the dawn of morning His tired head on table’s fallingAt the ideal, fashioned word, A stilly dream my Lensky had.But as soon as in charms of dreaming He lost himself - his neighbour comesTo silent room of bard, alarms And wakens Lensky by appealing:‘It’s seven soon, it’s time to wake, Onegin, may be, has to wait’.He was mistaken: sleeping fair — Onegin then for world was dead,The shades of night are now rare And Vesper’s met by cock ahead.Onegin is deep sleep just having; The sun is now high in heaven,And flitting quickly snow-storm Is shining, whirling. But at allFrom bed Onegin wasn’t moving, The dream yet flies about him.At last he fast awakes from dream, Apart the flaps of curtain’s movingHe looks and sees: the time is high Away from yard for mill to fly.XXVHe hurries up to ring.His servant Guillot from France, is running in,He offers necessary service And dressing-gown puts on him.Onegin’s quick to dress. Already His sernant’s ordered to be readyTogether go and with him To take the box with fighting thing.The sledge for race is now ready, In it he’s flying to the mill;Has come; to servant says he will Lepage’s fatal barrels steadyWith him be keeping, and the sledge To park in field not far from hedge.XXVIMy Lensky on the dam is leaning, For them impatiently he waits.With mill Zaretsky has been dealing: Mill-stones he investigates.Onegin’s coining with excuses.Zaretsky to behave refuses: ‘But where is the second yours?’In duels classic, pedant crossHe loved the method with his passion: To make a man on earth to layHe didn’t want by any way But by the rules of artful fashion,As legends say of old age (For that we’d praise in him the sage).XXVII’My second? - Eugene said with passion, My friend, monsieur Guiilot, does wait.I can’t foresee any objection To this representation made.Its true, he is unknown version, But really he's honest person!’Zaretsky’s bitten both lips; To Lensky Eugene then appeals:‘Shall we begin?’ ‘Perhaps,’ says Lensky.And quickly both they yet offBehind the mill.Meanwhile far off The honest person and ZaretskyGrand treaty’s ditties exercise; The foes stand and drop the eyes.XXVIIIThe foes!Shortly each from other Were drifted they by thirst of blood.Not long ago they like brothers Divided meals, ideas, floodOf daily troubles.Now spiteful, Like in vendetta they are frightful,Like in a dreadful misty dream Against each other in the stillPrepare ruins once for ever...They’d better laugh before they hadWith blood sustained each pure hand... They’d bel.ter part in friendly manner...The enmity’s afraid in world Of eyes derisive, scornful word!XXIXThe pistols all are now shining, The hammer’s jingling at the lock,To barrels go bullets hiding; First time is clicking pistol’s cock.The powder, by grey parts handed, On shelf is falling; an indented,Reliably well screwed the flint Is cocked once more.And stands at stintBehind a stump Guillot quite scared.The foes put the capes on steppe.Zaretsky thirty second step Has measured with exactness caredThen took the friends for last his track Arid each of them the pistol had.XXX‘You now meet...’ - And both coolly, The enemies, not aiming yet,In slow gait, quite fast and smoothly Have come the fourth already step.Four fatal for the life the stages...His pistol then Onegin raisesNot stopping coming in advance, The first of them to catch a chance.And more five steps they neared striding, And Lensky screwed left eye more fast,Began to aim... but quickly just Onegin shot...The clock’s been strikingThe fixing time; the poor bard In silence drops his pistol hardXXXIOn chest he puts his hand, unfortunate, And falls.His misty, foggy gazeExpresses death but not the torture.From mountains descends this wayIn sunny rays all sparkling, shining A block of snow hardly sliding.By instant cool is all filled up To him Onegin hurries up,He looks, he calls him - all’s for nothing!He isn’t more… The youngling bardHas found end untimely hard!The storm has breathed; his prime such charmingHas withered at the morning dawn., The fire at the altar’s gone.XXXIIUnmovingly he lay, and queer Was heavy brow’s languid peace.He under chest was wounded here, The blood yet steaming flew at ease.A trice ago was he living And his young heart was full of feeling,Of hope, enmity and love, The blood was boiling, life could laugh.But like a house all deserted It’s dark and still, and not by chanceIt’s mute for ever all at once.Are shut the shutters, limed are flirted The windows.The master’s gone God knows where, Tracks are wrong.XXXIIIIt’s nice by epigram audacious To make erroneous foe mad,It’s nice to see when stubborn gracious He bends his horns to butt is apt,Unwittingly in mirror’s peeping Ashamed to recognize: he’s beaten;Its nicer, friends, much more when he Is wailing foolishly: its me!And much the more it’s nice in silence For him prepare honest grave,To aim unseen at forehead pale, At distance try to make him silent.But yet to make him be at rest Of pleasures won’t be the best.XXXIVWhat would you feel if by your pistol Were killed a friend such good and youngWho was unmodest, who by bristle. An answer, other trifles done,Offended you at bottle badly, Or if yet he, annoyed, quite madlyTo challenge you could try like hell? But in your soul can you tellWhat would you feel if still, unmoving Your friend on earth is mute at restIn front of you with signs of death Is stiffening slowly, is cooling,Is being deaf and dumb at all To sad and desperate your call?XXXYIn languish of the heart remorses He pressed his pistol in his hand,At Lensky Eugene looks quite forceless.‘Well, he is killed’,- the neighbour said.He’s killed!..By dreadful exclamation Onegin’s shuddered; slain, impatientTo call some people gets away.Zaretsky cautiously could layOn sledge the corpse, all icy, lone, He’s taking home dreadful hoard,And smelling dead the horses snort And struggle; they with white wet loamAre wetting iron hard curb-bit, Like shaft they gallop with all speed.XXXVIMy friends, on bard you’d have a pity: Of hopes rain-bowed at primeFor world has done yet nothing titling, To grow male yet hadn’t timeBut withered!Where’s agitation And honourable aspirationOf youthful passion and of thought, Exalted, tender, bold, prompt?Where are of stormy love his itchings, The thirst for knowledge and for work,The fright of shame, of evil word? Where are you, cherished happy dreamings,The ghosts of unearthly whims, Of sacred poetry dreams?XXXVIIHe, might be, for the world’s welfare Or even for the fame was born;His lyre, now mute, could dare Alarm a loud peal for long,For centures to make him known.On steps of world the bard might goUpstairs to the highest rate.But his such sufferable shade,It may be, with itself has carried Some sacred secret; evil choiceHas mined great life-giving voice, And after funeral sad habitHe’ll never hear hymn of times, The blessing of the future tribes.XXXVIII, XXX1XIt might he other: he’d he having Some common, plainful, simple lot:The youthful years would be fading, The soul’s heat would not be hotIn many trends he’d change his habit: Would part with muses, would be married,In village cuckold but good, In wadded overall with hoodHe would have known life quite real, At fourty gout would have had,Would bore, eat, drink, be ill, he fat, At last in own bed idealAmong the children would he die At hands of doctors, weepers, wife.XLBut anyhow, dear reader, Alas! it was young lover’s lot:The poet, the thoughtful dreamer Was killed by hand of friend for nought!There is a place not tar from house In which inspired bard could rouse.Two pines accreted by one root, Beneath are streaming snakes of brookWhich came from neighbouring a valley; The peasants come to take a rest,The reapers dip the jars for best Arid pleasant clear water daily.And at the brook in thickened shade Is put a monument just made.XLIAnd near it (when it is raining In spring on corns of near fields),A shepherd bast gay sandal’s making, Of fishers from the Volga sings.And young a woman, city dweller All summer in the country spenderCan daily headlong ride full speed; When she alone in the fieldAt brook the monument is seeing She’s drawing made of leather rein,The veil on hat she turns away, And superficially is readingA plain inscription, then she tries To stop the dim in tender eyes.XLIIAnd slowly through fields she’s riding, Immersed is deeply in the dream:For long by fate of Lensky, striking, Unwittingly her soul’s filledShe thinks:‘Whith Olga what could happen?Or not for long her heart was shatteredAnd passed away of tears time?And where is her sister line?And fugitive of world and people, For stylish beauties stylish man,Where is that sullen gloomy crank, The killer of the bard such feeble?’Meantime account, made for you, In details I shall give to you,XLIIIBut now, heartily I though Do love my hero fine,Of course, of him I’ll quickly know,- For him I now haven’t time.My age inclines for strict a prose, Against light rhymes my age aroseAnd I - with sighing I confess - Am dangling after her much less.My pen has no old wishes To spoil some useful flying leafs;Some other, cool and cold dreams. Some other, more severe issuesIn noise of world and in the still Disturb my soul’s quiet dream.XLIVI’ve heard some voice of new desire, I’ve got new sorrow anew;By new one can’t I be admired I pity old one - it’s true.You, dreams, my dreams, where is your pleasure And rhyme to it: my youth, my treasure ?Can it be real that at last My youth had withered in the past?Can it he real anyhow Without elegical deedThat spring of youth could quickly speed (As I could joke until now)?And is it true, it can’t return?And am I soon at thirties turn?XLVIt means: my noon has come, its needed For me to realize, I see.O’key, but let us part not frigid. Ah, youth my light! Ah, dear me!I’m greatful for the good enjoyments, For sadness, for the pretty torments,For noise, for storms, for many feasts, For everything! For all your giftsTo you I’m greatful!You alone Among anxieties in stillCould me enjoy... I’ve had my fill; It is enough!With clear soulNew way I’m starting, do my best From all past life to take a rest.XLVILet me look back.Forgive me thickets In which my days have passed away,Were lilted with passions, lazy fidgets, With dreams of thoughtful soul’s haze.And you, my youthful inspiration, Disturb my weak imagination,You make my sleepy heart revive, To my good nook more often dive.You don’t let be cooled my soul, Become embittered, hardened, dry,At last like dead to petrify In deadly thrill of world on whole;In this a dirty pool with you, My friends, I have a bath like you.CHAPTER SEVENYou are, my Moscow, beloved of Russia daughter, and where can we find some other of the kind..Dmitriyev.How would you not love Moscow?Baratynsky.The drive to Moscow! It means the world to see!Where is it better?Where we have never been.GriboyedovIBy vernal rays all driven now From hills the snows, turned to mud,By turbid brooks have run all down To meadows, all under flood.By clear smile the nature’s fitting Through dream the year’s morning meetingThe shining skies are now blued.Yet limpid is the near woodAs if by greenish down covered.A bee to fields, of tribute well,Is flying from the waxy cell.Are drying valleys many-coloured;The herds make noise; of nightingale The song at silent night is gay.IIQuite sad for me is your occurence, The spring, the spring! of love the time!What languid agitation current There is in blood and soul mine!With hard emotion yet tender I am enjoyed by breath such gentleOf puffing to my face the spring In bosom of the country’s still!Or am I stranger to enjoyments, To all that gladdens and revives,Triumphant is and gladly shines, Is boring me, makes suffer tormentsMy soul, long ago dead, And all for it seems dark ahead?IIIOr aren’t we glad to see returning Of perished in the autumn leavesBecause remember bitter mourning When hear noise of forest’s thicks?Or with the nature just reviving We close in, confused by mindingThe withering of own days, Which can’t revive by any ways?May be, the thought to us is coming Amid poetical a dreamOf other, old, better spring, And all the heart it is alarmingBy dreams of distant pretty side, About moon and charming night...IVIs time: all good but lazy-bone Epicurean wise all men,You all indifferent, lucky, prone Of Levshin school the pupils, fans,You, country Priams, should be ready; And you, each sensitive a lady:The spring to country all you calls, The time of work, of fruits, of warmth,The time for strolles, much inspired, And all seductive, tempting nights.Be quick, my friends! the field invites. In carts with weights of food, attires,By own or by post-chase You get away from city gates.VAnd you, my reader dear, gracious, In your borouch from other landYou leave your city big, audacious, In which the winter’s mirth you’d had.With dear muse of mine capricious Let’s hear forest’s noise deliciousAt nameless river, small and fine. In village where Eugene mine,That hermit idle and despondent Yet recently in winter livedNot far from Tanya, young and grieved, My dear dreamer quite respondent;But where now he is not... And where left he dismal rot.VIAmong the hills in semicircle Well go there where brookThrough grass is snaking, green and purple, Through linden trees for river’s crook.The nightingales, of spring the lovers, At night all sing: dog-rose flowers;You hear voice of little source, You see grave-stone small and coarceIn shade of two pine-trees quite old; Inscription can to you explain:‘Vladimir Lensky here’s lain, He met his death like man quite holdAt such a year, such an age.You lie, young hard, in peace all age!’VIIOn branches of the pine permissive Sometimes an early morning windAbove this urn, to fate submissive, A wreath mysterious could swing.It happened: late at time of leisures Two girl-friends, both yet teen-agersWere in the dimmish light of moon Embraced, were weeping at the tomb.But now...Tomb-stone is gloomy, Is lost, and last of feet the printsDecayed...The branch has no wreath; Beneath, alone, grey and puny,The shepherd’s singing as before And makes bast sandal more and more.VIII, IX, XMy poor Lensky! badly pining Not very long was weeping she.Alas! young bride, if she were trying, To sadness loyal couldn’t be.Some other now drew attention, Some other managed with inventionBy love her grief to lull to sleep, Some uhlan could her flattered keep;That uhlan’s loved by all her soul… At altar now does she standWith wreath, ashamed, his hand in hand, With drooping head, as if yet lone,With fire in the drooping eyes, Unwittingly she slightly smiles.XIBehind the grave my Lensky poor To deaf eternity was used.Was he, the youth, a singer gloomy By fatal treachery confused?Or sleeping over the Lethe The poet is quiet, easy,Him nothing there can alarm, The world for him is shut dud dumb?Yes! just indifferent oblivion Behind the grave for all us waits.Of loos, friends and lover-maids The voice is fading.All yet livingThe heirs of estate, all cross, Obscenely disputes try to force.XIIThe ringing voice of Olga, though, From Larin’s soon forever went:That uhlan, slave of lot his own, With her should come to regiment.And sadly shedding hitter tears To part with Olga mother nearsAnd seems to be yet hardly live: But Tanya simply couldn’t cry,She deathly pale was looking round And all her face was greatly sadWhen to the porch to part all went. At parting all they fussed aboutAround carriage of the young; To see them off Tatyana flung.XIIIFor long as if through fog she one Could follow them all with eyes...And now Tanya is alone Alas! for long-time friend she sighs,Her young and dear, pretty, charming, Her confidante, her near darlingIs brought a long way off by fate, They must for ever separate.Like shade she aimlessly is hiking And comes into deserted park...And everywhere finds some mark... But none relief she is yet findingFor tears her, by will suppressed - Her heart is torn in half at breast,XIVAnd in the solitude severe Her passion’s heating yet much more,And of Onegin, far from here, Her heart reminds much more to her.For him she never will he waiting; In him she always must be hatingThe killer of his brother-bard; The bard is dead... and that is hard,But he’s forgotten, and to other His bride has given all herself...Of bard the memory itself Like smoke at blue sky is rather...For him two hearts, I can believe, Yet are in grief...What for to grieve?XVThe evening sky’s more dark.The waters Are still.Some noise by beetle’s raised.Some round dance away disperses: Behind the river smoked, blazedThe fisher’s fire.Field is clear In moonlight all it seems like silver.In own dreams all’s being lost For long Tatyana goes forth.She went and went.., All of a sudden Sees manor-house from a hill,Some grove, hamlet under hill, Behind the river sees a garden;She looks, and all her own heart More often’s heating and more hard.XVIThe doubts all confused her soul:‘Shall go forth or should return?..He isn’t here...I’m unknown...I’ll take a look and then turn’,She now from the hill comes down, And hardly breathing looks aroundBewildered and astonished hard...She enters a deserted yard.All barking, dogs to her are running.At her much frightened loud criesOf yard boys family just flies.Ran up and not without fightingThe boys got dogs behind the fence And took the maiden for defence.XYIIMay I just see the banns home? Them Tanya asked.As quick as canTo call Anisya children go, To take the keys from porch they ran;At once Anisya then appeared; Through porch the way was quickly clearedAnd she to empty house went In which had lived the novel’s crank.She sees a hall forgotten now, A cue on billiard has a rest,At crumpled canopy lies next A riding switch.And with a bowThe woman says:‘At fire-place Alone barin sat for days.XVIIIIn winter here they had dinner With Lensky, neighbour late, as rule...You now come to rooms, the inner...And here is the banns room.He slept and coffee had he here, His menager’s reports could hear,A book at mornings here read...And old barin room this had;In it, sometimes, on rare sundays At window, in glasses, heTo play the cards was used with me.Let give the God his soul chancesTo rescue, to his hones - peace In grave, in mother-soil at ease!’XIXTatyana with her eyes amazing A look at everything can take,And all to her it seems quite wealthy, Revives her languid soul’s rateBy this half-tormenting a ramble, By table with a faded candle,At window by books in heap, By bed with carpet, chairs, whip,By sight through panes at moonlight diminish, By this quite pallid feeble light,By lordly Byron portrait bright, By doll cast-iron and diminishedWith gloomy brow under hat, Who arms cross-folded has had.XXFor long Tatyana here goes At stylish fascinating cell.It’s late.Some cold wind just blows.It’s dark in valleys.Rather well The grove sleeps.At foggy rivers And hills the moon just dasappears.The pilgrim young, you know why, Should long ago home fly.And Tanya hides her agitation, But yet she’s sighing once againAnd then departures for the way, But asks before for invitationTo conic again to have a look And there lone read some book.XXIShe parts with woman, house keeping, Behind the gates.And in a dayAt early morning comes for meeting With lone canopy again.For silent room alone getting At once the whole world forgetting With nobody nearbyFor long is weeping she this time.But then with books she could be dealing.At first of them she didn’t think, But their choice seemed queer thing, And she was lost in their reading,With thirst of soul all them held; And she discovered other world.XXIIAnd though Eugene, as we know, For long from reading turned his face,But several books of common row Himself excluded from disgrace:Of Giaour, Juan famous singer, With him some more two-three might linger:In them reflects the whole age And modem man of nowadaysIs pictured rather well correctly With his immoral soul wry,Quite egoistic, selfish, dry, To dreaming dedicated greatlyWith his malicious evil wit, Who boils in action for a bit.XXIIIAnd many pages yet are keeping Some sharpened markings by the nail;On them attentive eyes are fixing By will and passion of the maid.Tatyana’s now trembling, seeing By what a thought, a note, feelingSometimes Onegin was surprised, With what could mutely coincide;At margins of the books she’s meeting Of reader’s pencil slightest signs:Onegin’s soul always tries Unwittingly to show feelingWith short a word or with a cross, With question sign and so forth.XXIVAnd by degrees but is beginning Tatyana him to comprehend -Thank God, more clearly - she’s feeling The man, for whom to sigh she hadThrough all her fate, severe, ruling. This crank, this dangerous and a gloomyCreation of the hell or sky, This angel, haughty devil wry,What’s he? is real imitation From Moscow a spook or whimIn Harold cloak, hat with brim, Or other whims interpretation?Of stylish words some ready set?Is he a parody not yet?XXVIs really the secret’s found?Or really she guessed not wrong?The time is fast, she must be out: For her are waiting so longTwo neighbours, home have been walking And all about her are talking.‘You see, Tatyana’s not a child,’ The old woman’s voice is mild,-‘Of them my Olga is the younger.To fix her fate it’s time, I see;What shall I do, I can’t foresee; The same she says to all but sharper:‘Do not.’Her grief she never hides And lone in the woods she hikes."XXVI’But may be she’s in love?’ ‘Who knows?Buyánov courted: was refused.To Petushkóv she never goes; Pykhtín, the hussar, toed to fuseQuite greatly, when he made a visit, On her was fawning, you should see it!I thought that time: will do, perhaps; But what d’you think? again collapse!’‘Well, dear me, what is the matter?For fair of the brides her bring,To Moscow, they need good things.’..,‘Ah, father my! the profit’s worsened..’.‘For single winter it will do, At least I’ll credit money you’…XXVIIThe old woman was admired By that advice, such simple, good;She courted… at once decided: To Moscow by winter route!This news Tatyana quickly hears.To judgings by the world severeTo bring her features clear, plain, Simplicity of country maidAnd her attires, such belating, And her belating tune of speech!Of city dandies, maidens rich To catch the eyes derisive, ratingSuch dread! She wants to be away, In thickets of the woods to stay.XXVIIIShe’s getting up with rays of morning, At once she hurries to the fieldsAnd with her eyes all them adoring She looks around and she speaks:‘Forgive me, ever peaceful valleys, Hill peaks well known under heavens,And you, well known dear wood, And charming skies of neighbourhood.Forgive me you, my dear nature; I change my world such still and lightFor noise of fuss such brilliant, bright.And you forgive, my freedom later!For what and where do I strive?And what can give me fate of mine?’XXIXMuch longer now she is hiking, But now brook and now hillInduce to have a stop, inviting In front of their charms to kneel.And like with friends, for long well known, With all the meadows and grovesShe hurries up to have a chat.But summer’s flying quicker yet.The autumn golden is coming, The nature’s now trembling, paleLike victim under charming veil.And now North, all clouds driving,Has breathed, has wailed; from nothern shelf Enchanting winter comes herself.XXXIt came, it scattered, it is hanging On boughs of the oak-trees;It lies like carpets, white and waving, Among the fields, around hills.The banks of stopped, unmoving river By shroud are equated here.The frost is sparkling, we are glad To everyone of winter prank.But Tanya’s heart yet isn’t gladdened, To meet the winter never came,The frosty dust did not inhale, With early snow, as it happened,Can’t wash her arms, her breast and face: Afraid she is of winter ways.XXXIDeparturing date again's belated And can yet run the last of dates.Upholsterers inspected, painted Renewed the old closed sleighs.Of three kibitkas transport own Can bring belongings of the home:The chairs, saucepans and the trunks, The matresses and jams in jars,The feather beds, the cocks in cages, The basins, pots, et cetera,Well, many trifles like the bra.Among the servants-maids-teenagers.Arose noise at parting grades: They bring from stables eighteen jades.XXXIIThey harness them in sleighs for road. The breakfast’s ready in the room.They all kibitkas brim-full load. All men and women raise a boom.On jade postillion’s sitting ragged, Emaciated, beard’s shaggy.All servants gathered at the gate To part with barins.Boom could fade.They sat. The aging sleigh is sliding, Is stilly crawling through the gate.‘Forgive, my place, my peaceful mate!Forgive, secluded my asylum!But shall I see you?’ - Tanya cries And sheds the tears from her eyes.XXXIIIWhen we for better education Will widen more all needed frames(In times, by thorough foundation Of philosophical best rates,Five hundred years), roads, may be, In all the state will change invently:The highways Russia will unite, Connect and cross its any side;Cast-iron bridges over waters Will go like a bow wide;At any sides we’ll hills divide, Will dig the tunnels under waters;And christened world will have the will To build per station own inn.XXXIVWe haven’t any decent road, Forgotten bridges all decay.The bugs and fleas at stations lone Each minute take your sleep away.The inns are absent.Rooms are cold, In them some hungry but high-flownA menu hangs for order’s sake And teases appetite in vain.Meanwhile the Cyclops of the village In front of dimmish forge’s lightWith Russian hammer and the might Return to sleighs the foreign image;They bless the harmful ruts of land And ditches of the fatherland.XXXVBut at the time of cold winter The drive is pleasant all the day:Like senseless rhymes of stylish In winter’s even every way.Automedones all are dashing Untiring are troikas flashing.Amusing idle gaze, all miles Are glimpsing like a fence in eyes.Unlucky Larina was going (To waste the money was afraid)Not by the post-chaise, by jade, And my Tatyana was enjoyingEnough the boredom on the ways: The journey took them seven days.XXXVIIn front of them when they were near White-stone Moscow they saw:Like heat are shining crosses dear; They guilded cupolas adore.Ah, brethren! pleased I was then greatly When many curches, each with belfry,The gardens, chambers before me I could at once all gathered see!Each day in grief of separation By fickle fate, too far from youYou, Moscow, I thought of you!My Moscow... in this lunationFor Russian heart too much is fused And echoed in it through muse!XXXVIIThey see encircled by its grove Petrovsky castle.It in strainWith pride for recent fame can glow: Napoleon waited but in vain(Still previous happiness was feeling) To see my Moscow just kneelingOf old Kremlin keys to give; But didn’t come at all to himMy Moscow with guilty feeling; Yet neither feast and nor a giftShe had in hand: by fire heat That hero she was meeting.From here, deeply lost in thought, He looked at threatening flame he got.XXXVIIIGood-bye, the witness of past glory, Petrovsky castle.Go on!Of turnpike pillars white and florid Are seen... Tverskaya gets along...Across the pits the sleigh is speeding, Is passing by the stalls, the women,The lanterns, children, many shops, A palace, gardens, cloisters, flocksOf Buchars, sledges, kitchen-gardens, The merchants, peasants arid the huts,The boulevards, cossacks and the butts, Drug-stores and towers, the garments,The balconies; with lions gate, While on the crosses jackdaws reign.XXXIX, XLTo tiresome this drive, all failing, An hour or two they gave;At Kharitónya’s in the alley In front of house at the gateThe sleigh has stopped; to auntie old, Consumptive now, to beholdHer own house they have come; The door wide open was doneBy greyish Kalmyk: wears glasses And torn a coat, socks in hands;At inner room a cry just bangs: Princess is ill in bed, but fusses.In tears women have embraced And exclamations have been raised.XLI- Princess, mon ange! -‘Pachette!’- Alina!‘Who might be thinking... all the time!For how long?My cousin dear, Sit down... complex is the life!My God, a scene from novels dear...’ -And that’s my daughter...Tanya, near!‘Ah, Tanya!Dear! come to rue… As in a dream it seems to be...D’you, Grandison in mind yet keeping?’What Grandison? Ah, Grandison!Well, I remember... has he gone?At Simeon’s he’s now Living. He saw me at Twelfth-night sometime, His son was married then meanwhile.XLIIAnd that... but afterwards you’ll know, Is not it true?With kin to meetTo-morrow we’ll Tanya show...But I can hardly drag my feet,To be with you I cannot go...But you are tortured by the road.Let’s come together... take a rest...I haven’t force... is tired breast…For me is now hard the gladness, Not only the grief... my heart...For nowhere am I smart...With age the life is such a badness...’And here she, exhausted, sad In tears bad a cough has had.XLIIIOf ill princess the joy, caresses Are touching Tanya, but she feelsQuite badly at unknown places, Accustomed to her chamber, fields.And under curtain fine, all silky, In her new bed she is unsleepy,And early ringing of the bells (Precursor of the morning works)Nor makes get up without choosing.At window she now sits.The more to light the darkness fits. In vain for fields she’s now looking:Instead she sees unknown yard, The fence, the kitchen, mews, a cart.XLIVTo all of kin the dinners row They take my Tanya every dayTo each grandparent to show Her lazyness dispersed for days.The kin from distant places rare Have tender welcome everywhere,And exclamations at the board:‘What big is Tanya!Is it notThat recently I was you christening?’I was taking you in hands!‘And I your ears pulled by hands!’‘And I was gingebread you giving!’And all grandparents exclaim: ’But how years fly away!’XLVIn them you can’t see any changes, They keep in patterns old gap:Princess Helena has for ages The same of tulle well made night cap,Is whitening on Lukérya Lvovna, The same yet lies Lytibóv Petróvna.Iván Petróvich’s fool and bore, Semyón Petróvich stints yet more;With Pelagéya Nikolávna The same’s monsieur, her Fine-Mouche, friend,The same is dog, the same’s her man Which is of club the loyal number,Still humble, deaf like long before, Still eats and drinks for two or more.XLVIMy Tanya’s hugged by their daughters.Of Moscow young graces goodAt first are silent her observers, They look at her from head to foot;They all can find her somewhat queer Provincial and affected creatureBut somewhat pale and rather thin, And yet she’s looking rather slim;Submissive to the natural passion Invite to them, become her friends,Are kissing, tenderly press hands, They flop her curls up to the fashion,And all entrust in singing voice The secrets of the maiden’s choice,XLVIIOf others victories and own The pranks, the hopes and the dreams.All innocent the talkings flow; With lie they beautify some things,Then for the babbles due concession To hear of her heart confessionIn tender manner they agree.But Tanya now like in dreamTo their talks pays none attention, In them she sees yet nothing smart,And secrets of her own heart, Her sacred tears, happy tensionQuite mutely for herself she keeps, Of them to nobody speaks.XLVIIITatyana tries to listen better To interests of the common clash;But in the parlour all are flattered By such a trifle, banal trash;In talks all’s plain, its all indifferent, Yet slander they without interest;In fruitless speeches drily fuse inquiries, some gossips, news,But none a thought for days is flashing; At neither random nor by chanceThe languid wit forever smiles; The heart is still, its never dashing,And even nonsense having joys This idle world each time avoids.XLIXFrom archives coining several youngsters In throng at Tanya stiffly gaze,By thoughts of her each one another Unfavourably try to daze;Of them some queer clown dismal Her found almost idealAnd leaning mutely on the door Is writing elegies for her,At boring aunt’s my Tanya meeting Once Vyasemisky in his good ageHer soul managed to engage; And near him Tatyana seeingHis wig yet smoothing by his hand Of her inquires old man.LBut where of Melpomen heavy Resounds fine and drawling wail,While she’s by tinsel gown waving In front of her some throng to hail;Or where Thalia’s stilly dreaming To friendly claps yet isn’t listening;Or where Terpsichore one Amazes all the public young(As well as in the old years In time of mine and time of yours),-They nowhere turned to her Lornettes of jealous ladies dearNor tubes of stylish expert-men From stalls and boxes ever then.LIThey bring Tatyana to grand meeting The tightness, agitation, heat,Of music roar, of candles gleaming, The flash, the whirl of couples quick,Of beauties light and fine attires, Of people variegated choirs,And semicircle wide of brides,- All that at once one’s feelings strikes.Enrolled dandies show here The impudence and fine gilletteAnd unattentive smart lornette.On leave the gussars hasten hereThemselves to show making booms, To gleam, to charm, to fly to troops.LIIThe night has many stars, all charming; The brightest one at heaven’s blueAmong the friends the moon’s more shining; To Moscow all beauties flew.But She whom I yet don’t dare To trouble with my lyre fair,She like the moon to shine has come Among the wives and maids the one.With heavenly her pride she’s touching The earth when conies to take a rest:Of what a languor’s full her breast?What languid is her gaze guile charming:But that will do; adieu is [node: For madness tribute you have paid.LIIIThe noise, the laughter, running, bows, Mazurka, gallop, waltz.MeanwhileBetween two aunts at column now, Not seen by anyone that tame,Tatyana looks but isn't. soon To this world’s fuss she’s hatred feeling.She’s stuffy here... In her dreams Transfers for life among the fields,To country, people in the groves, To isolated dear nookIn which yet streams the clear brook, To flowers, to all the novels,Of linden alleys dimmish To places where he then came.LIVHer thought is hiking everywhere, Forgotten are the bail, the world.Meanwhile his eyes off her can’t tear Some general important, grand.The aunts are winking one to other And pushed my Tanya quickly rather,And whispered her each one of them: ‘You look left side at those men…’‘Left side?.. but where? what is there?’ I ‘It doesn’t matter, but you look,D’you see, in front of that small group The two, the uniforms they wear...He stepped away... he turned a bit..’-‘But who? plump general that big?’LVCongratulating Tanya dear With first success at fair ringLet’s turn the route we now here To keep in mind of whom I sing...Of that two words I must be speaking: Of young my friend I’m now singing,Of multiplied his own crank.You now bless long years’ workMy muse in ethics well embodied!To me true compass now lendHaphazard wander to prevent.Enough... and has been done the burden:Well, I saluted classicism! It’s late, but preface has been seen.CHAPTER EIGHTFare thee well, and if for ever 							Still for ever, fare thee well.ByronIThat time, when in lyceum’s gardens I flourished quickly, quite serene,To read Apuleius I was ardent, But Cicero I didn’t read,That time in sacramental valleys, At cries of swans, of spring endeavours,At waters shining in the still, A muse had come to me, it filledMy student’s cell; its sullen tightness At once by rays of hers was lit,She opened the feasts In it And praised devices of the chillness,And glory of the old starts, And panting dreams of all young heartsIIThe world with smile my muse was electing, The first success lent wings for us,Derzhavin old us was greeting, To tomb descending blessed he us.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IIIAnd as a law for me imputing Of passions tyrany unique,With throng by passions deeply fusing, I brought my playful muse to fitFor hot discussions of the gentry, The terror of the midnight sentry;To them, to their senseless feasts She brought her fine and dear gifts,And like the Beccant could she gamble, With bowl sang she for the guests,And youth of those vanished days All after her could wildly dangle;And I was proud among friends Of new she-friend with windy trends.IVI lagged behind as their member And ran away...She’s after me.And how often muse my tender Delighted silent route for meBy sorcery of story’s secrets!At rocks of the Caucasian districtsLike young Lenore under noon With me was riding like a loom.And often at Taurida’s beaches She brought me in the have of nightAt sea to hear for a while Of nereid unceasing whispers,Eternal choir or the waves, To lord of world the hymn of praise.VShe capital forgot at distance, Its lustre, all its noisy feasts;Among Moldavian dismal thickets She visited marquees in peaceNomadic life to better know, Herself with them could wild she go,And she forgot the speech of gods For scant and queer lots and lotsOf words for songs of prairie districts...But suddenly was changed it all:And now in my garden small She came at once as district mistress,In eyes with dismal thought of brains, Arid with a book in French in hands.VIFirst time indeed my muse just now To worldly rout I can lead;In all her charms, to steppes yet bound, I can with jealous shyness poop.Through tight a row of the grandeurs, Of diplomats, of army dandies,Of proud ladies yet she slips, She now looks, but stilly sits,Admires all the noisy tightness, The flash of dresses and of words,Arrival slow of the guests In front of hostess young brightness,Around ladies dark a frame Of gaping, like at pictures, men.VIIShe likes the order, well-composed, Of oligarchial the chats,The cool of humble pride composed, Of ages medley and of ranks.But who is that, in throng selected, Is standing mute and unaffected?To all he seems to be some strange; In front of him the faces rangeLike tiresome a rank of ghosts, In face has loftiness or spleen?What for yet here has he been?Who’s he?Not Eugene he’s at most?But really?Yes, It is he...For long has chance with us to be?VIIIIs he the same or quiet now?Or, as before, he plays the crank?What kind’s he now anyhow?And what for is can now lurid?Will be like Melmoth? patriotic? Cosmopolite? or has he got it?Like Harold, Quaker will he fit? Like hypocrite or other fig?Or will he be a lad good natured Like you and I, like all the world?At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated,Enough he fooled the whole world? At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated. Enough he fooled the whole world…D’you know?...- Yes and no yet.IX- But why you so indisposed Are speaking bad about him?Because we restlessly disclose Defects; are bustling; judge the whim?Because uncautious ardent soul Annoys, ridicules, as a wholeInsults all proud paltry males: The wit them presses, needs a space?Because we often take the talkings For real, useful, vital things?The folly’s wicked, giddy, needs Grand rubbish for the grand high persons;But persons ordinary for us Are never strange, they fit all u.0XHe’s blessed, who in his youth was youthful! He’s blessed, who well in time was ripe.Who made his life not cooled, but useful, With years could his aims abide;To queer dreams did not abandon, From mob apart was never standing,At twenty dandy was with brain, At thirty married was with gain,At. fifty who was liberated From private and from other debts,Who glory, money and the ranks In turn and quietly effected,Of whom they spoke till the end: N.N. is excellent a man.XIIts sad to think, indeed, that vainly The youth was given to all us,We easily betrayed her daily And she was cheating all of us;That all the best and sacred wishes,	 And all the fresh and pure dreamingsHave been decayed in nature’s train Like leaves in autumn, full of rain.Unbearable is at rout Of mere dinners see a lineTo look at life like at the rite, And follow the decent crowd,But yet not sharing with throng Ideas, passions yours life long".XIIAs object of the judging noisy, In life you’d never have a wish:Among the people wise quite choicely To pass for feigned a queer. fish,Or kind of madcap; sad a version Of some Satanic ugly person,Or even own demon mine. Onegin (him I’ll occupy),Who killed at duel friend his own, Had lived without aim, this sage,To twenty six of own age. Was weary at leisure oneWithout service, wife or deed, By something to engage unfit.XIIISome kind of trouble was him teasing: For change of places secret cue(A highly torturing a feeling, A voluntary cross of few).He left with real consolation Of woods and valleys isolation,In which a bloody, dreadful shade To him appeared every day.He aimlessly began to wander, With passions only agrees,But all his journeys and the trips, Like all in world, began to bother:And he returned just to the hall Like Chatsky: from the ship for ball.XIVThe crowd now all is waving, A whisper through the hall has flied...To hostess a lady’s heading, Some plump grand general’s behind.Her movements were unhurried, slow. Nor cool, nor talkative is, thoughShe doesn’t glare at the rest, And doesn’t claim to have success;At people looks she, never smirking, Without imitating tricks…She’s still and simple at a glimpse. She seemed to be a certain copy,Do comme il faut… (Shishkov, forgive; can’t some good translation give).XVThe ladies tried to her to near; The old women smiled on her;The men all bowed her more eager And tried to catch the eyes of her.The maidens tried to pass by quiet In front of tier through hall; and higherHis nose, shoulders could raise The general, by her amazed.They didn’t use the word a beauty To call her, but from head to footIn her could never find a hook To use the word on fashion’s duty,Which they in world of London grant To speak like vulgar, (but I can’t...XVII very much this word am liking, But cannot I this word translate,In life with us like new it’s hiking, And hardly will it have good fate.In epigrams it. would be fitting...). But let’s return to lady sitting.With charms untroubled she is sweet; For long at table does she sitWith brilliant Voronskaya Nina, Of Nova Cleopatra this.Perhaps, you would agree, that is By marble charms unable NinaShe-neighbour her to outshine, Herself is though dazzling, fine.XVII‘Indeed? - my Eugene’s now thinking, - But is it true?..Exactly...Not...Why! out of the country thickets...’Lornette his captious he has got,Directs it constantly, each minute At her, who by her own imageForgotten features can remind.‘You tell me, prince, if don’t mind,Who’s there, crimson beret wears, With Spanish diplomat she speaks?’,The prince as if anew him sees:‘I see, in world you’ve been too rare...Well, to present you I shall try’‘But who is she?’ She is my wife,XVIII‘What, you are married! didn’t know!And how long?’ ‘Two will he fast...’‘And whom?’ - She’s Larin’s. -‘Tanya though!’ ‘D’you know her?-‘I’m neighbour just’.‘Well, let us go…’ Prince then nears His own wife (and she them hears),Presents his friend and distant kin.Princess is staring at him...Despite her soul, such embarrassed, Despite her passions being raised,Astonished being and amazed, - As if by nothing she was harassed:She kept her manners quite the same, Was quiet bow her again.XIXGood heavens! Never did she shudder! Nor sudden paleness, redness has...And no brow moved she rasher; She didn’t even lips her press.At her to gaze he was assidious, But no tracks of Tanya previousCould my Onegin now find.To have a talk with her he triedAnd… he could not.She was him asking: For long he's here? Where from?If their district visits on?And then at prince she was adjustingHer tired look and slipped away...Unmoving, lone he’s again.XXIs she the same Tatyana real? To whom he privately, in haze,At start of novel good ideal In thicket of a distant place,In happy heat on moral lecture By chance could give her like preceptor?The same, from whom he now keeps A letter, where heart her speaks,And where everything’s at freedom? The same yet girl... or its a dream?The same yet girl, whom he in whim Neglected then like meek for wisdom?Indeed she now could behave Indifferently, could be brave?XXIHe now leaves the noisy rout. He goes home, has to think;And now sullen, now harmful Ideas trouble late his dream.Aid he awoke; they are bringing A letter: him prince N. is biddingFor evening party...‘Lord! to her!..Yes, I shall come, I’ll come!’ - beforeHis lunch him answered with politeness.What happened, what a strange a dreamtWhat has been moved inside of him, In soul lazy, cool, delightless?Annoyance? bustle? or anew Some love - the trouble of the youth?XXIIAgain his time Onegin counts, Again the day is dragging forth;It’s striking ten; he’s driving out. He’s flying... now he’s at porch.He trembles... to princess he’s coming; His Tanya lone he is finding_Together for a time they sit.Are silent.Not a word can slipAway from Eugene’s lips; morose, He’s awkward, hardly has he forceTo answer her.To him occurs A stubborn, rude idea though,And stubbornly he looks; but she Is sitting quietly, she’s free.XXIIIHer husband comes.He is suspending This quite unpleasant tete-a-tete.And with Onegin’s recollecting Some jokes, pranks of old date,They laugh; the guests are now coming.And by the salt of worlds backbitingHas been enlivened all the talk; In front of hostess light rotWithout mincing style was shining, But interrupted was meanwhileBy prudent talk without trite, E ternal morals, prigs surviving,And didn’t frighten anyone By natural vividness and fun,XXIVThe capital’s high pick was there, Of fashion patterns, the elite.The persons, known everywhere, And wanted fools for trampling feet.Some old ladies had been seated, All capped, with roses, looked wicked;They had invited several maids With never smiling, sullen face;Of State the envoy always spoke About needs, the State had had;With fragrant, all grey-haired head An old man said old jokes,All line and clever at his date, A bit ridiculous to-day.XXVFor epigrams was always greedy With everything quite cross a Dan;With Lea, that’s given him too sweety; With ladies’ flatness; tunes of men;With talks about novel hazy; With symbol, making sisters crazy;With war; with magazine’s white lie; With snow and with own wife,Forbidding goddess, guile inventive, Of reigning, sumptuous Neva fine.But people! all you are alike Your ancestor, called Eve, foremother: What’s given, hardly it involves, But constantly the Dragon callsTo him for tree, mysterious rather: Forbidden fruit to have you’d like, Or Eden to itself’s unlike.XXVIIIBut how greatly Tanya’s altered!Her role how firmly played,And could of high oppressive order All manners quickly imitate!And who would look for maiden tender In this majestic casual mannerOf legislator of the halls?And he inspired her at dawns!Sometimes of him in midnight hazes, Untill yet Morpheus, she believes,Would come, she innocently grieves, Her languid eyes to moon she raises;And dreams, that she with him as wife Will pass the peaceful mute of life!XXIXFor love all ages are submissive But to the innocent young heartIt is benevolent, releasing, Like vernal storms in fields make startThe first in life the stormy passions, And they give birth to new impressions,Then life almighty brings the good: A pompous bloom arid costly fruit,But if the age is late and fruitless At natural turn of life for rack,Is sad of passions dead a track; This way the storms of autumn coolnessConvert the meadows to pools And bare, leafless make the woods.XXXAlas! my Eugene, no doubts, With Tanya is in love like child;In languish of the loving bounds He’s spending now day and night.Of sense precautions never heeding, To her glass porch too close speeding,Arrives he now every day; Her follows like own shade:He’s happy now just to throw On shoulders her fluffy wrap,Or, like in fever, can he get A touch of hand, or helps to goThrough thickened crowd of the guests, Or handkerchief picks up with jests.XXXITo him she doesn’t pay attention, You strive or die, it is the same:At home meets without tension, At visits two-three words would sayWith more bow can be meeting, Sometimes at all him isn’t seeing;For flirt she never gives a hint - For that high world is never fit.To loose his colour he’s beginning: She doesn’t see or she’s too hard!?Onegin’s pining, feels a smart, He seems to be consumption feeling.To doctors he is being sent. The doctors him to waters send.XXXIIHe doesn’t go, ready now To write to ancestors: to hailBefore arrival; anyhow She isn’t bothered (that’s female!);But he is stubborn: to renounce Unfit, yet hopes, hustles; bounceMore brave than sound man, a grand His message wants to send: weak handA passionate epistle’s writing.In letters though he againSees no use (and not in vain). But hearty pain to be abidingBecame alredy quite inapt.His letter’s here, quite exact.Eugene’s letter to TatyanaI can foresee: you’ll be abused By sad and secret explanation.With scornful bitter contemplation Your proud look will me refuse!But what I’d want? what task am aiming By opening my heart. to you?To what malicious merry-making, It may be, give a cause for you!By chance I met you long ago. A spark of tenderness you showed.I didn’t dare to believe: Cave no start to habits dear,As I to loose my freedom feared Which’s hateful to my own will.But something more us separated...Unlucky victim, Lensky’s gone...From everything to me legated, I had my heart for ever torn;By nothing bound, I’m a stranger: I thought: the freedom, peace for meReplace the fortune.Goodness me!What blunder! I’m a punished ranger.To see you more to have a chance. To follow you everywhere;The smile of lips, the move of eyes To catch by loving eyes somewhere;For long to hear, understand Perfections yours, all them confessingIn front of you in pangs to stand, To pale, to fade... That is the blessing?I’ve been deprived of that; I race, At hazard after you I’m dangling:I prize my hours, my days: But I’m in idle boredom wastingBy fate all counted my days, All painful are they nowadays,I see: my age is short: to cure My life for every other day,From morning forth I must be sure, That I shall see you just to-day.I dread: in my submissive prayers You’ll see by strict, severe gazeSome scornful, cunning, idle ventures, - Your angry blame I grasp in haze.If you could know, what’s diminished To languish in the thirst for love,In flame by wit to cool each minute The agitation in the blood;For long to wish, your knees embracing, And weeping at your dear feet,Entreaties and confessions making, To speak of anything I feel,Meanwhile with cold sham to dare To force the speech and look with mockTo go on with calm a talk, To fix at you the joyful stare!..But let it go: at this rate To strive against myself aloneI can’t I am at will your own And I give up to all my fate.XXXIIIBut no answer...He is seeking New ways. The second day, the thirdWithout answer.He for meeting Arrived; is coming... just has gotTo meet princess.But what severe!He’s not been seen, none word from dear;Ooh! What encirclement she has Of christening coldness, princess!To try to keep the indignation Her bps, such stubborn, now want!Onegin’s fixing eyes upon; Where are compassions, perturbation?Of tears tracks?..But none she had!Her face but has of wrath a track...XXXIVAnd may be tracks of secret fear Of own husband and of worldFor pranks or weakness of the dear... (That’s all he knew in own world...)And no hope!... full of sadness, He now curses own madness.In it immersed, he there quite The whole world again denied,And in his own study silent Remembered times, when after himSevere anguish, called a spleen, Was seeking in the world unquiet,And took him by the scruff of neck And in a gloomy corner kept.XXXVAgain promiscuosly he’s reading… Has read all Gibbon and Rousseau,Manzony, Herder; was re-reading Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot,From Bade that sceptical was reading, With works of Fontanelle was meeting.Of Russian works he something read, Rejecting nothing for effect;The almanacs and all the journals In which to us they lectures give,In which they all are cursing me; Some kinds of madrigals, not oral,To me I met sometimes in them! E sempre bene, gentlemen! (37)XXXVIAnd what?His eyes the books were reading, But all his thoughts were far away;Desires, sorrows, some dreamings In soul crowded each day.To him among the lines all printed His eyes in spirit always hintedAt other kinds of lines.To them He paid his all attention then.They were some secret good traditions Of tender, shady old age:The dreams, not bound with this day, The threats, the talkings and predictions,Some lively rots in long a tale Or hearty letters of young maid.XXXVIIAnd by degrees to sleep he’s reading His passions, thoughts, his own wit:In front of him gay fancy’s giving His Pharaoh, and tries to fit;He sees some smelted snow; now, As if he sleeps in some doss-house,A youth unmoving lies on it; He hears voices: ‘Well, he’s killed...’Or can he see forgotten foes, Some cravens, slanderers, a swarmOf traitresses quite young at all, Of mates despised a circle close;Or village house - at the pane Is sitting she.., and she again!,.XXXIIIHe so used to live in visions That he could go mad quite freeOr could be poet with reasons (And I confess - could favour me).Indeed, by magnetism’s all forces The mechanism of Russian versesTo grasp that time he had a chance, But as a student he’s a dunce.He real bard resented there, When all alone, lost in haze,In front of flaming fire-place Was Benedetta purring fairOr Idol mio; dropped by chance On fire journals or his pumps.XXXIXThe days were speeding; heated air Could mean: the spring is coining fine;He couldn’t be a bard for ever, He didn’t go mad or die,The spring enlightened him, and now From dosed chambers he gets out,In which for winter had a place. Storm windows, the fire-placeAt clear morning he is leaving, In sledge along the river flies.On blue, with slashes covered, ice The sun is gay; the snow’s filthyIn heaps, forgotten in the streets.But where now through them speedsXLMy dashing Eugene?You are guessing To know; you are quite exact:At Tanya tries to be impressing My unreclaimed yet now crank.Comes in, of dead has strong resemblance.None soul’s seen in rooms at entrance...For her he’s looking on... for nought...He opened a door."And what.Surprises deeply all his reeling?Princess, undone yet before himAlone’s sitting, pale and thin, She is some letter now reading,And sheds of tears stilly stream, Her cheek on hand she has to lean.XLIAh, who would not her silent feelings At this quick moment have read!And who that poor Tanya previous In this princess could not have met!In languish of unwitting pities Onegin quickly at her feel is...She has been shuddered, but is mute, She eyes Onegin as some good,She’s not astonished, hasn’t anger...His morbid and quite dying look,A mute reproach, begging looks, - All that she grasps.A simple maidenWith dreams and heart of old days In her this time again could raise.XLIITo get him up she isn’t asking, Not taking eyes off all his headDoes not remove from lips his gasping Her quite insensible small hand...About what she’s now dreaming?Too long the silence’s now seeming...And stilly does she say at last:‘Enough, get up, I now mustExplain to you, do it frankly.You must remember that day time,When in the garden’s alley fine The fate us brought together; sadlyTo lesson yours attended I, To-day, you see, the turn is mine.XLIII‘Onegin, then I was much younger And, seems to me, much more was fine,I loved you, I for love had hunger, But what in all your heart could find?Severity instead of kindness; Indeed, for you was neither tidingsOf humble girl some secret love?But now - God! - is cooling bloodAs soon as I recall your stare And that your homily...But ICan’t now blame: that dreadful time To be more honest could you dare;To me that time you were quite right,’ To you is grateful soul mine...XLIV‘But then... or it not true?.. in desert, From fussy rumours being far,You didn’t like me; What has happened, That after me you now are?And me you have in view...What purpose?Is it because in higher circlesEach other day be seen I must, That I am rich in wealthy caste?In actions husband’s mutilated, And us for that at court caress?Or that’s because all my disgrace Would eyes attract to you, belated,And in the world could help to back Seductive though small respect?XLV‘I weep... If that your Tanya old Till now you could not forget,Your pricks of swear, you must know, Your strict and cool severe chat(If I had right for some decisions) I would prefer to slighting feelings,To all these letters, tears, deeds...That time to all my childish dreamsYou had, I saw, some little pity, Some small respect to age, at least...But nowadays... explain the gist; To feet of mine what is you leading?And how, with your heart and mind, To he the slave of sense, not kind?XLVI‘To me, Onegin, all this splendour, This tinsel of repelling life,And my in life success at random, My stylish place, the guests till night,What’s use?I would with joy allow To give this masquerade by now,This noise, the lustre and the crooks, For wild a garden, shelves of books,For that at distance poor dwelling, For place, in which the first toy time,I saw, Onegin, you in life. For cemetry, eternal settingIn shade of branch some simple cross On grave of dear, poor nurse.XLVII‘And happiness was not unlikely, And so near!But my fateDecided is.Incautious, likely, I was, but me could supplicateMy mother in her bitter tears Implored to yield; for Tanya hereAll lots that time became alike; And then I married, I would likeTo ask you: leave, do not be funny. You know, in your heart I findSome real honour and the pride.I love you (why should I be cunning?).They’ve made me marry other man; And I’ll be true to him till end!XLVIIIShe went away.My Eugene’s standing As if by thunder has been struck,To what a storm of sudden sensing At heart he now has to duck!But jingle of the spurs he hears, Tatyana’s husband just appears,And thus my hero grin; At minute, difficult for him,My reader, well he now leaving For long, for ever.Alter himEnough in common way with him We wandered in the world.My greetings!Hurra! we all have reached the land.Indeed, for long should have the end!XLIXWhatever are you, dear reader, A friend or not, I’d like with youTo part Eke friend, but real, eager.Forgive!What for would ever viewYou all my slipshod stanzas here: For recollections restless dear;For quiet leisure after work; For lively pictures, salted word;For my mistakes in Russian grammar, - Help God to find in all this bookAmusements or for dreams a nook, Some thoughts for heart, for journal’s clamourA mere hit from all I’d give.Arid thus we now part, forgive!LMy travelling mate, I beg your pardon; My true ideal, you forgive!You, constant vivid job, could harden My slender force, to me could giveAll envied by the hard, yet living! In worldly storms - of life oblivion,Of dear friends a pretty chat.But many days away could getSince young Tatyana at some hovel With Eugene, in my hazy dream,First time appeared at the rim Of outlines of my free novel.Through magic crystal I could not Myself discern all their lot.LIBut they, to whom at friendly meeting My first of stanzas could I cite...Are not, or far away are living, As Sadi said before I write.Without them Onegm’s pictured.And she, that young and lovely creature;Ideal image, Tanya’s rhyme...Ah, many were by fate denied!He’s blessed, who feast of life was leaving In time, not drinking to the endAll wine from goblet at his hand Was not till end life’s novel reading,But suddenly could part from it, As I from my Onegin did,THE END---------------------------------------------
………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .A bee to fields, of tribute well,A bloody roast-beef is given, And truffles, splendour of teenage,A book at mornings here read...A bottle of some light sweet wine, Some solitude, the stillness fine:A bowlA brave sledge-cart from field’s returning, It’s fluffy furrows upturning,A dwarf with tail; and there’s that Who’s half-a-crane and half-a-cat.A forest stands; a stout pine Is still and frowned, yet is fine(A highly torturing a feeling, A voluntary cross of few).A hundred times is blessed, who’s faithful. Who’s got his wit to be quite calm,A jet of steam yet hardly flashes, its whirling, vanishes at last.A jug for apple juice he took, An old calendar in order:A lady’s love until to-day To speak her Russian isn’t trying,A lot of pretty loving rot; He it declaims; the sound flowsA lot of stories with the whirls, With wicked ghosts and the girls...A menu hangs for order’s sake And teases appetite in vain.A mere hit from all I’d give.A mill is squatting in the dancing, By wings it crackles, flaps, is glancing.A monk in black by chance appears, Or quick a hare in the fieldsA mute reproach, begging looks, - All that she grasps.A need for sleep.A nightingale in haze of night His loud melodies is tuning.A passionate epistle’s writing.A pedant but of science man. He had a happy talent then:A plain inscription, then she tries To stop the dim in tender eyes.A poet by will of goodness, New devil then will enter me;A shepherd bast gay sandal’s making, Of fishers from the Volga sings.A simple maidenA smooth-tongued voice of world, it happened, His evil bravery could praise:A sound sleep, the walks, the reading. The forest shade, of brooks the hiss, -A splendid house now shines, In windows some shades can flow,A stream Like silver shines. And after dream By hornlet peasants have been waking.A trice ago was he living And his young heart was full of feeling,A word to say, and then again To think arid think, but of the same All day and night until new meeting.A yard boy’s running in the middle, He made his dog in sledge to sitA young two-horned the moon at sky, But at unusual left the side,A youth unmoving lies on it; He hears voices: ‘Well, he’s killed...’About Lensky’s wedding all Were sure neighbours once for all.About feasts, enormous, fine, About meals and corks I wroteAbout girls, you meant above, And how did you fall in love?About haying and of wine, Of kennels, of relation’s lint, -About news and fashions dear With dolls she didn’t talk at all,About other’s restless passions, And other’s love will touch the heart, -About what she’s now dreaming?Above this urn, to fate submissive, A wreath mysterious could swing.Accept you all my thankful feelings Admirer of peaceful muse,Across a glade, all under snow Around which all’s dark and sad.Across the pits the sleigh is speeding, Is passing by the stalls, the women,Across the torrent have been laid. In front of noisy gulf of flow,Admires all the noisy tightness, The flash of dresses and of words,Adorer of the glory, freedom, Immersed in own stormy thought,Adores my Olga: figure, breast!Adulteries were not adonng; His friends and freindship made him boring,Affected native Russian banns, And all the neighbours were amused.Again he, downcast and thoughtful, In front of dear Olga stands;Again his time Onegin counts, Again the day is dragging forth;Again of scandals, and at last To altar I shall lead them fast,Again promiscuosly he’s reading… Has read all Gibbon and Rousseau,Against Tatyana in a row They sit. Of morning moon more paleAggressive lenders each offends, Each has his own wit and sense.‘Agreed’ - You... dear guy!Ah! I’ll forever keep in mind Small feet of lady.‘Ah, Eugene!’, - She is quickly running, Like shade she’s prompt, to exit’s jumping, From porch for garden through the yard She flies, to look yet back it’s hard; In short a minute she’s been racing Across the bridges and the glade, Along the forest, brook, the lake, She is the lilac bushes breaking, Through flowers she runs... in wrench Without breath she reached a bench,Ah, Olga gave the word to him,‘Ah, Tanya!Ah, brethren! pleased I was then greatly When many curches, each with belfry,-Ah, dear my! in my teenager We heard yet nothing of the love,Ah, dear, all my inner feelingAh, don’t mind’ -My friend, by God to hail I dare —‘Ah, father my! the profit’s worsened..’.Ah, feet, in vain I was affected.Ah, feet, such small, where are you flow, What vernal plants are trampling yet?Ah, he could love; they don’t now Have anything like real loveAh, if he knew, by what a cruel Offence. Tatyana’s heart was burnt!Ah, many friends were near then!Ah, many were by fate denied!‘Ah, my Lord!’,‘Ah, nanny, that is quite (mother, I’m never bothered by your wit; I speak of letter, you should fit For that Onegin’ -Well done dealing.Ah, never impulse of the sense Put rack my soul ever hence.Ah, no one, my friends, believe me!‘Ah, poor Yorick, said he, joyfulAh, who would not her silent feelings At this quick moment have read!‘Ah, will you do a favour, nanny?’ -All right, my dear, you command.-Ah, you, whose memory will fuse In verse my flying feeble dealings,Aid he awoke; they are bringing A letter: him prince N. is biddingAlas! I must repeat again:Alas! On furrows of livesAlas! all days and nights are now One long and lone dream in heat,Alas! for funs, which can be differed, I’ve ruined much of own life.Alas! my Eugene, no doubts, With Tanya is in love like child;Alas! young bride, if she were trying, To sadness loyal couldn’t be.Alas, Tatyana’s daily fading: She’s paling, sinking and is mute,Alas, it’s easy to divine!Ali that has gone like sound’s fizz, And dear Tanya’s youth all dwindles:All’s By now much dilapidated, Indeed, I don’t know why.All’s blight, all’s white without shade.All’s filled by Him, by image dear, And magic force, that she can hear,All’s good: for vigil and for sleep Will come the hour well geared;All’s now calm; in rooms you hear: Is snoring heavy PustyakóvAll are amazed, my Lensky sighs, Does not believe his own eyes.All barking, dogs to her are running.All bow, shuffle, gladly smile, Wet-nurses scream, the babies cry.All days I spent in sleep, in shades, And there had my happiest days.All double lanterns in the sight Are stretching their joyful light,All envied by the hard, yet living! In worldly storms - of life oblivion,All evening Lensky was distracted, Was now silent, now gay;All fancy goods for whims abundant Which are supplied by busy LondonAll fashioned model of the creature Who’s dressed, undressed, anew redressed.All flows in a single gear...All given up in summer heat. To count days he simply hated,All have the supper.All heads are now grandly shaking The neighbours whisper (they are wailing):All innocent the talkings flow; With lie they beautify some things,All line and clever at his date, A bit ridiculous to-day.All lots that time became alike; And then I married, I would likeAll my confessions must you take: For judgement yours I give my fate.All neighbours came by closed sleigh, By hooded carts, by britzkas, sledge...All over the Baltic waves For forest, fat and hand-made lace;All over the Neva river, When waters, being gaily light,All peasants-men there are enriching, They get the silver with a spade,All poets, meanwhile I’ll note, Of dreamy, pensive love are friends,All point at her, such young and fine, And all they cry: ‘It’s mine! Its mine’All right, by hand unfair ownAll satisfied at feast by dinner The neighbours puff in room, the inner;All servant maidens in the yard To guess the fortune were accustomed,All servants gathered at the gate To part with barins.All services of old time.All that I don’t grasp.All that I gladlessly survived.- All they are yet feelingAll they utterAll things by Paris craft invented To help the idle hungry tasteAll those changes. All the more He, full of jealous indignation,All us, well laugh at their impulse, At late ridiculous opinions,All wine from goblet at his hand Was not till end life’s novel reading,All yet livingAllow me, the readers mine, To show you her elder line.Alone’s sitting, pale and thin, She is some letter now reading,Alone to my nurse, who’s being My old friend from youth and forth.Alone with his soul’s self Unsatisfied was by himself.Alone you, to speak my mind, I’d take as friend of days my grievous,Along the darkish sky is flying To scatter in the sky afar,Along unfinished rhymes of words No girl’s small feet and no heads.Already I of plan was thinking, Of name of person number one,Already for triumph he’s waiting,Alter himAmong Moldavian dismal thickets She visited marquees in peaceAmong admirers obedient I’ve seen she-cranks of other kinds:Among all those ardent days Of boiling youth, such bright and gay,Among his properties alone, To pass away his lazy time,Among his victories to thrive, And his amusements gratifying?Among the children would he die At hands of doctors, weepers, wife.Among the friends the moon’s more shining; To Moscow all beauties flew.Among the hills in semicircle Well go there where brookAmong the people wise quite choicely To pass for feigned a queer. fish,Among the servants-maids-teenagers.Among the songs in books decrepit Somewhere issued was that lilt; Triquet with poet’s keen wit For world from dust that rhyme extracted,Amusements or for dreams a nook, Some thoughts for heart, for journal’s clamourAmusing idle gaze, all miles Are glimpsing like a fence in eyes.An Lane’s home from the morning Is full of guests, of kin adoring:And… he could not.And -now she with great attention Voluptuous novels quickly reads,And Flyanov who is not quite healthy, On chairs in a room are wealthy.And God forbid at evening party Or after ball, at porch, on stepAnd I’ll remind the speech of passion, The words of longing, wistful loveAnd I’m afraid: in spite of charm That water brings me much of harm...And I’m in family unknown...And I - with sighing I confess - Am dangling after her much less.And I confess: from them I fled: It seemed with horror I had readAnd I had found then, amazing: By their bashful, stern behaving‘And I was gingebread you giving!’And I was proud among friends Of new she-friend with windy trends.‘And I your ears pulled by hands!’And I, untroubled, glorified The girl from rocks, ideal my,And I, while thinking of Swetlana,And Lei is soaring above head: And under pillow unmovingAnd Olga’s yawning; round here She’s looking for her Lensky dear.And Tanya hides her agitation, But yet she’s sighing once againAnd Tatyana’s nervousAnd Vertcr, that rebellious martyr, Unimitable GrandisonAnd after rather tedious dinner, When I, refreshing own inner,And albums perfect but enormous, Of stylish rhymers racking lot,And all around dreams in still, With light of moon its all fulfilled.And all entrust in singing voice The secrets of the maiden’s choice,And all grandparents exclaim: ’But how years fly away!’And all to her it seems quite wealthy, Revives her languid soul’s rateAnd always pity of the past; Enough, of other sing you fast!’And always turned, from us - I mean. That their looks give rise for spleen.And am I soon at thirties turn?And as a law for me imputing Of passions tyrany unique,And asks him stilly, sweetly sighs More tenderer than reed-pipe dear:And at the brook in thickened shade Is put a monument just made.And being free, again	revel In girl from Venece, pretty, young,And boring pictures’ row, done In style of La Fontaine’s sweet novels.And by degrees but is beginning Tatyana him to comprehend -And by degrees to sleep he’s reading His passions, thoughts, his own wit:And by the people’s usual custom On Christmas must we come to see;And by the salt of worlds backbitingAnd calmly edge of earth is lighting, And, sign of day, the wind is rising,And can’t; she’s now deeply worrier!, She moans and she’d like to cry...And christened world will have the will To build per station own inn.And comes to bouieward quite forlone: He there at a space is walkingAnd could of high oppressive order All manners quickly imitate!And didn’t frighten anyone By natural vividness and fun,And dreams as well as cartomancies, The moons predictions in the skies.And dreams, that she with him as wife Will pass the peaceful mute of life!And drifting of the country’s pastime In all her dreams looked better, gay.And drop some tears twice or thrice; They needed kvass not less than air,And early ringing of the bells (Precursor of the morning works)And even by her trembling hands To lift her dress ashamed she's here;And even nonsense having joys This idle world each time avoids.And even this my chapter five — From all digressions to refine.And everywhere finds some mark... But none relief she is yet findingAnd exclamations at the board:And fair sex like down’s slight...And falsely sings, Applauds and crying Are greeting him.And far niente is my law.	 I wake at mornings to adoreAnd flitting quickly snow-storm Is shining, whirling. But at allAnd from his dressing room he went Like giddy Venus, when quite gaily,And fugitive of world and people, For stylish beauties stylish man,And full of truth which he can meet His elegies like rivers fleet.And gave this person all the beauty, And made him wrongly persecuted;And gaze attentive of her maidens; She daily greatly is depressed;And girls, at banks Salgirian captured.And give you all that 1 could scribbleAnd glory of the old starts, And panting dreams of all young heartsAnd got to neighbours in a while. At once they heartily were givenAnd gradually rises day.And great belief in world’s perfection, Forgive him ardour of his age,‘And happiness was not unlikely, And so near!And happy rights for own self Like haughty Moscow itself.And he inspired her at dawns!And he invents by whim’s requests Caricatures of the guests.And he returned just to the hall Like Chatsky: from the ship for ball.And he was sure: friends are ready To suffer all for him already,And he with pleasure long ago Was meeting him; that’s why at borneAnd heated by the pure passion This agitated person badeAnd her attires, such belating, And her belating tune of speech!And here is the banns room.And here she, exhausted, sad In tears bad a cough has had.And him repentance badly nags; This inspiration often addsAnd hostile shore, I shall be rushing To come to midday desert steppeAnd how could he be annoying The hearts of ladies, whom he knew!And how long?’ ‘Two will he fast...’And how often muse my tender Delighted silent route for meAnd how, with your heart and mind, To he the slave of sense, not kind?And impulses of virgin dream, And grand simplicity in him.And in a dayAnd in a while of storm the track In soul mine will soon be ceasing,And in addition gave to them Collection of plain fables then, With them two Pentads, a grammar.And in his own study silent Remembered times, when after himAnd in the solitude severe Her passion’s heating yet much more,And in the world could help to back Seductive though small respect?And into sweet and sinless dream By soul he was getting in.And is alive yet for the present, In philosophical sense desert,And is it true, it can’t return?And leaf by leaf through it is looking But nothing to her sister says...And leaning mutely on the door Is writing elegies for her,And leans on him with trembling hands; All fearful she’s shyly steppingAnd let them God long live for us!And like the Beccant could she gamble, With bowl sang she for the guests,And like with friends, for long well known, With all the meadows and grovesAnd listening Id my singing rhyme From banks they all together fly.And magic poison of its itches; You are pursued by happy dream,And make some rainbows on snow. By lampions dotted from the sidesAnd many boys with joyful cries Are scaring on sonorous ice;And many pages yet are keeping Some sharpened markings by the nail;And many verses, jokes, whims, And arguments, and merry dreams.And may be tracks of secret fear Of own husband and of worldAnd me you have in view...And more five steps they neared striding, And Lensky screwed left eye more fast,And much the more it’s nice in silence For him prepare honest grave,And my in life success at random, My stylish place, the guests till night,And near it (when it is raining In spring on corns of near fields),And no brow moved she rasher; She didn’t even lips her press.And no hope!... full of sadness, He now curses own madness.And no nonsense in the world Or epigram with brutal wordAnd not because the Grandison To Lovelace was by her prefered;And nothing cooled his strong belief:And now North, all clouds driving,And now Tanya is alone Alas! for long-time friend she sighs,And now at your will is rather To punish me with scorn for that.And now in my garden small She came at once as district mistress,And now jealouser’s triumphant!And now sullen, now harmful Ideas trouble late his dream.And now, free from humid stopper, Each bottle bangs and all the wineAnd of Onegin, far from here, Her heart reminds much more to her.And of romantic finest rose. He sang of countries: far awayAnd of the world new lustre, noise Fulfilled his wit with future joys.And often at Taurida’s beaches She brought me in the have of nightAnd often in the summer’s sphere, When clear is the sky at nightAnd old barin room this had;And own pawn with own rook Distracted Lensky there took,And parents foresaw the fate: Were calculating wedding date;And passed away of tears time?And passions which were mute and heartless; To praise yet you l don’t want;And placid, solidly effected, In style of clever old time.And proud language’s now lit For prose postal a bit.And quickly both they yet offAnd rent the ear-rings of gold; Then brittle snows fastly holdAnd sadly shedding hitter tears To part with Olga mother nearsAnd saying so, made he dry A glass to health of dear neighbour,And secrets of her own heart, Her sacred tears, happy tensionAnd seems to be yet hardly live: But Tanya simply couldn’t cry,And semicircle wide of brides,- All that at once one’s feelings strikes.And several days she after that Had been entroubled, deeply sad.And several minutes after that With her the waltz again he’s dancing.And she forgot the speech of gods For scant and queer lots and lotsAnd she has hadAnd she herself renewed at last Night-cap and dressing-gown fast.And she insensibly is drifting, She doesn’t move and doesn’t breathe;And she is squeaking (dear me!): In gold chamber visit me!...And she to empty house went In which had lived the novel’s crank.And she, as if she’s burned by flame, Has stopped at once and looks away...And she, that young and lovely creature;And sheds of tears stilly stream, Her cheek on hand she has to lean.And shelf with dusty books anew With mourning taffeta he drew.And slowly through fields she’s riding, Immersed is deeply in the dream:And smelling dead the horses snort And struggle; they with white wet loamAnd so grew they old both.And stands at stintAnd stilly does she say at last:And stilly neared me in calmness. I think its you with love and brightness Could whisper full of hopes word.And stubbornly he looks; but she Is sitting quietly, she’s free.And suddenly my Lensky enters, With hire Onegin.And that... but afterwards you’ll know, Is not it true?And then I shall begin to rhyme New couplets, more than twenty five,And then I thought: He’s now in;And then at prince she was adjustingAnd then departures for the way, But asks before for invitationAnd then from people far away To give her lessons all the day?And then he dressed himself...And then in secret could defame them By merry jest or real he.And then was speaking of the same: Of Olga, dear love, again!And there… -And there, in the shades of links, My younger days were rushing things,And they expressed the common wish To call him dangerous queer fish.And though Eugene, as we know, For long from reading turned his face,And thought of her in him inspired First moan of his conscious life.And thus my hero grin; At minute, difficult for him,And thus the time would pass; meanwhile They ask, and Olga tea prepares;And thus... But what a fool I am I They call you: come next week to them.-And to Onegin with wry smile From poet he gives for reading A leaf.And to the river, lightly clad Beneath the mounting he went;And to the same and strict revealer, To neighbourhood occasions gave.And took him by the scruff of neck And in a gloomy corner kept.And trembling state is seen by him; All vexed, he’s being in a whim.And unattentive smart lornette.And under curtain fine, all silky, In her new bed she is unsleepy,And wayward, willful is her head? Or heart is flaming, tender, healthy?And we adored, like in a dream, Some song of horn and man, such bold...And we... with nothing can we shine, We all to see you are adoring.And what’s Onegin doing?And what’s the reason?And what can give me fate of mine?’And what for is can now lurid?And what insidiousness you show, When you amuse a man half deadAnd what.And what?And what?And what?And what? -And when a falling shining starAnd when sometimes in front of herAnd where everything’s at freedom? The same yet girl... or its a dream?And where is her sister line?‘And where is your friend, the former?- Vladimir such request has got, It seems, he us at all forgot.’.And whispered her each one of them: ‘You look left side at those men…’And who inspired touching talk Which looks like madman’s hearty mock.And who that poor Tanya previous In this princess could not have met!And who would look for maiden tender In this majestic casual mannerAnd who, d’you think, from it is looking?‘And whom your lovely verse adored?’‘And whom?’ - She’s Larin’s. -And with Onegin’s recollecting Some jokes, pranks of old date,And with a bowAnd with her eyes all them adoring She looks around and she speaks:And wondered: would he be alive?’And works again imagination. Again her touch of fascinationAnd yawned with happy wife and friend, Not troubled by the jealous torment;And you agree, my dear reader: This time like real gentlemanAnd you forgive, my freedom later!And you have right to it, not duties, Among rebellious storms, I mean,And you, ‘Bordeaux’ you came friendly, Like friend in trouble and in grief,And you, my reader dear, gracious, In your borouch from other landAnd you, my youthful inspiration, Disturb my weak imagination,And you, the girls all young, good looking, Whom droshkies quickly take awayAnd you, well known dear wood, And charming skies of neighbourhood.And young a woman, city dweller All summer in the country spenderAnd youth of those vanished days All after her could wildly dangle;And, covered with the frosted gown, His beaver collar now sparks.And. so cunny, she is gay. Already’s able to betray!And. told her:Andryushka, quicker must you go!Annette; And on the last one you read so:Annoyance, jealousy could vanish In front of eyes with clear relish,Annoyance? bustle? or anew Some love - the trouble of the youth?Apostate of wild enjoyments,Appear profiles of heads Of ladies and of fashion cranks.Appeared-vanished quickly rather, We gee, but don’t we. confess.Appolo’s children took it sacred; For Albion proud lyre ratedAre blessed the troubles of the day, Is blessed the darkness of the gravelAre drying valleys many-coloured;Are full of piety, of wit, Such cautious, that we can’t endure,Are kissing, tenderly press hands, They flop her curls up to the fashion,Are not, or far away are living, As Sadi said before I write.Are shut the shutters, limed are flirted The windows.Are silent.Are snow-bound by the storm. In depth of snow are forlorn.Are troubled house-spirit gangs; Onegin’s eyes make tire own,Are wetting iron hard curb-bit, Like shaft they gallop with all speed.Are you the same, or others dared To change, replace you there all?Arid though ladies can be talking Of Say and Bentham at the walking,Arid thus we now part, forgive!Arid, following Petrarka’s tracks, Could calm his heart’s the biggest trouble.Arise and ripen, then will fall, And others after them come all,Arose noise at parting grades: They bring from stables eighteen jades.Around Tanya ladies crowd,Around carriage of the young; To see them off Tatyana flung.Around ladies dark a frame Of gaping, like at pictures, men.Arrange the pillows in bed Then give him drugs in sadness, thoughArrival slow of the guests In front of hostess young brightness,Arrives he now every day; Her follows like own shade:As I to loose my freedom feared Which’s hateful to my own will.As at the reason of the parting Tatyana’s grumbling at the brook,As he indifferently could yawn Inside antique or modern hall.As he to hate coquette decided Excited Lensky didn’t wantAs idols now to have got Or Vampire, who’s lost in thought,As if by greenish down covered.As if to prove that he was right. And Eugene, passionate, indulgent,As legends say of old age (For that we’d praise in him the sage).As no knowledge they had had, And dearly were deformatingAs now not at any time He could bear-steaks and Strassburg pieAs object of the judging noisy, In life you’d never have a wish:As pawn that’s worth of dear mate.As quick as canAs real expert does by chance. He could be silent in discussion,As sign of friendship’s written in, Continued, lessened for the whim.As sign of lust for future being The master of her home, childAs soon as I recall your stare And that your homily...As they are mean and simple features, You won’t see fine art in that.As they them wrote many years Of might, as it through ages came..’As well as bees from tasty house With noise are flying for the bloom(As well as in the old years In time of mine and time of yours),-As well as poor moth is blending And shines like rainbowed a thingAs well as ruddy foolish moon At the horizon’s foolish brightness’.As well as seeds in vital strife In earth by spring are given life.Astonished being and amazed, - As if by nothing she was harassed:At Kharitónya’s in the alley In front of house at the gateAt Lensky Eugene looks quite forceless.At Olga then he fixed his gaze And whispered: ‘I’ve my happy days...’At Simeon’s he’s now Living. He saw me at Twelfth-night sometime, His son was married then meanwhile.At Tanya tries to be impressing My unreclaimed yet now crank.At Verrey’s every morning’s time On credit drank three quarts of wine.At any novel those features, Her own portrait, very nice;At any place in front of you Your fatal tempter waits for you.At any place there are some chambers, Of damask are in rooms wallpapers,At any place you fancy him, The refuge for the happy wishes;At any sides we’ll hills divide, Will dig the tunnels under waters;At boring aunt’s my Tanya meeting Once Vyasemisky in his good ageAt boring stage some known actor, And, turning to unknown worldAt bottom of my soul fast... But give them madrigal at last!At break of dawn the night is cold; In cornfields work has ceased away;At brook the monument is seeing She’s drawing made of leather rein,At clavichords he had been sitting, But only for chords was fitting;At clear morning he is leaving, In sledge along the river flies.At crumpled canopy lies next A riding switch.At dawn who never knows yet The evening where will he spend.At early morning comes for meeting With lone canopy again.‘At fire-place Alone barin sat for days.At fire-place the table’s lain: Onegin’s waiting - Lensky’s speedingAt first I wished to keep it secret; Believe me: never of my shame You’d guess, as I would well behaveAt first are silent her observers, They look at her from head to foot;At first his language me confused,At first of them she didn’t think, But their choice seemed queer thing, And she was lost in their reading,At first they’d nothing seen In common.At first they came to him for visit But as he usually was goneAt first two days anew he drove Along secluded lone fieldsAt foggy rivers And hills the moon just dasappears.At goose’s neck a skull is fateful, It’s whirling round for all sides;At her much frightened loud criesAt her to gaze he was assidious, But no tracks of Tanya previousAt him she stares all the way:At his Penates, quite permissive Vladimir honoured all, who died;At home coffee used to drink; Were poor journals for him waiting.At home did he shut himself And yawning, tried to write of self.At home had to work a lot; And he went out; but my EugeneAt home he took out pistols To check them up, then put them backAt home meets without tension, At visits two-three words would sayAt inner room a cry just bangs: Princess is ill in bed, but fusses.At last before the dawn of morning His tired head on table’s fallingAt last he fast awakes from dream, Apart the flaps of curtain’s movingAt last he gave it up, and failing, Himself he found at her dwelling.At last it stopped.At last like dead to petrify In deadly thrill of world on whole;At last she’s very deeply sighing, From little bench is gettingAt least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated,At least regret, sincere pity, At least by sounds of the speech,At least three hours he daily In front of mirrors gladly spent,At margins of the books she’s meeting Of reader’s pencil slightest signs:At meetings but without lights, And tears, secret torment’s gladness...At nameless river, small and fine. In village where Eugene mine,At neighbour’s monument submissive He dedicated him a sigh;At once Anisya then appeared; Through porch the way was quickly clearedAt once behind the door awakens The sound of bassoon from band:At once was frightened my Tatyana...At other kinds of lines.At own billiard with two balls He played from morning one for all.At people looks she, never smirking, Without imitating tricks…At rocks of the Caucasian districtsAt sea I wait for better season, The sails of ships I call, I feel,At sea to hear for a while Of nereid unceasing whispers,(At season, which is called meanwhile The time of wolf and dog for meetings,At sister Tanya isn’t looking; She lies in bed; a book she hasAt smooth of parquets in the halls, At sea on granite and at malls.At start of novel good ideal In thicket of a distant place,At such a year, such an age.At table each of dear guests Had course according to the ranks.At the beginning of my novel — (In chapter first you look it all)At the games of maidenhood.At the ideal, fashioned word, A stilly dream my Lensky had.At their fascinating signs The flaming looks of men are fleeting.At time of parting furthermore It beats like ready just to blow.At twenty dandy was with brain, At thirty married was with gain,At usual hour stirred up, In candle’s light she’s getting up.At waters shining in the still, A muse had come to me, it filledAt window alone, sad (Diana’s ray lights up, her wakens)At window by books in heap, By bed with carpet, chairs, whip,At window he flies was killing And daily house-keeper cursed.At window she now sits.At you in village have a weak But look. To listen to your speaking,At. fifty who was liberated From private and from other debts,Attractiveness; to catch in nets By first expressing some regretAutomedones all are dashing Untiring are troikas flashing.Away from Eugene’s lips; morose, He’s awkward, hardly has he forceAway had passed his old father, Onegin was attacked by ratherAway in lirical a heat, He cites like Delvig, drunk at feast.B By pantalones, frac, gillette - In Russian they are absent yet.Baratynsky.Be glad with such a man… You smart With rare wit your letter wrote!Be quick, my friends! the field invites. In carts with weights of food, attires,Became alredy quite inapt.Because her love is not of fashion, Obedient to the call of passion?Because ire, truthfulness she’s swift? Because from heavens got as giftBecause of ache of own head. And, though staying rake adoring,Because remember bitter mourning When hear noise of forest’s thicks?Because she’s innocent and plain,Because uncautious ardent soul Annoys, ridicules, as a wholeBecause we often take the talkings For real, useful, vital things?Because we restlessly disclose Defects; are bustling; judge the whim?Before arrival; anyhow She isn’t bothered (that’s female!);Before the fight to be invited... At watch, the sun he’s looking on...Began to aim... but quickly just Onegin shot...Behind a stump Guillot quite scared.Behind accacias, bird cherries From storms is hidden in his den,Behind the grave my Lensky poor To deaf eternity was used.Behind the mill.Believe (for bail I give my conscience), The wedlock will be poignant nonsense.Believe, I’d never try anew To look for better bride but. you.Besides, opinions of the husband By very good and virtuous wifeBesides, they all are so pure, Magestic, for the love unfit,Between affairs and the leisure She found out with a pleasureBetween blancmanger and roasts fine They now bring the Tsimlyan wine.Between the Limburg lively cheese And best pine-apple gold squeese.Between two aunts at column now, Not seen by anyone that tame,Bewildered and astonished hard...Blue smoke rises to the sky, And thorough German baker goesBoom could fade.‘Bordeaux’ all the times!Brothers!But Eugene’s fate for him was fair: At first by Madame he was cared,But Eugene all the lawsuits hated With lot contented, gave all themBut Eugene was beyond conception: Of course, he knew the people well,But Hymen’s troubles, griefs of mating,‘But I’d prefer another,But I… it doesn’t bother me: To old times I’ll loyal be.But IBut I am ready to refuse As its translation isn’t easy.But I can hardly drag my feet,But I my fruits of dreams am reading, And my harmonious ventured verseBut I was born for peaceful living, In village stillness gladly breathe,But I, it may be, not adoring Will see the secrets of the grave,But Latin’s not in fashion now. To tell the truth but frank enough,But Lensky, having no wishes Of marriage ties the weight to have,But Nazon was by world denied And suffered past rebellious session:But She whom I yet don’t dare To trouble with my lyre fair,But Tanya’s heart yet isn’t gladdened, To meet the winter never came,But Tanya now like in dreamBut after first cordial greeting Zaretsky’s silent for a whileBut aim of looks and talks on whole That time at feast are fatty piesBut all his journeys and the trips, Like all in world, began to bother:‘But all the elegies are mere A trifle, aimless idle talk,But all the nothern Russian summer Of south winter bad burlesque:But all the same, the hope them With baby-talk is lying then.But all the youngsters, always flaming, Could never enmity conceal,But anyhow, dear reader, Alas! it was young lover’s lot:But anyway the friend of mine To be light-hearted had been fated,But are you listening yet to me?But as a whole their talk Is harmless, but unpleasant mock.But as soon as in charms of dreaming He lost himself - his neighbour comesBut at leastBut at the time of cold winter The drive is pleasant all the day:But at the window, not gay, Was mutely sitting all the day.But blessed by God of inspiration Another one in. rhymes of fashion.But blissful husband of coquette, To part from him you did regret!But breget bells are now clinking: New ballet will begin by chance,But by your narrow small tracks,But can’t you really absolve Her passions, if you them revolve?But can’t: through door her Eugene enters; In front of eyes of Hades’ spectresBut crosses bridge; her helping her: She runs… the bear’s after her!But dangerous for the maiden’s heart) Quite reddenning he’s missing up.But darkish mirror can reflect The trembling moon alone yet...But dear friends, it all is useless: If I in future won’t be‘But do you love, indeed, the other?’ -And what? -But doesn’t lade the heat of cheeks, And brighter, strickingly it heats,But even such a friendship, readers, We haven’t now; each of usBut fate for us was never steady: For long we had to separate.But foot, such small, of Terpsichore More charming somewhat is for me.But forward, forward, you, my story!But from. the shaggy lackey-bear She cannot get away, She flaps:But happiness of youth has gone Like light foot-prints in fields forlone.But he’s forgotten, and to other His bride has given all herself...But he at real field of action Himself white raptured by affectionBut he is stubborn: to renounce Unfit, yet hopes, hustles; bounceBut hero, I’m not wrong, Could never be like Grandison.But his such sufferable shade,But hist!‘But how are Tatyana, neighbours, And Olga, frisky pretty girl?’‘But how did you marry, nanny?’ -It was by wish of God.But how greatly Tanya’s altered!But if my wretched fate you rather Will grasp with pity little bit, You’ll never leave me such unfit.But if the age is late and fruitless At natural turn of life for rack,But if the morals never shifted, My love to ballets could survive.But in a while I had been used To caustic, hot argumentation,But in a while the guests from suburb Are making up a common hubbub:But in gloomy cliffsBut in the parlour all are flattered By such a trifle, banal trash;But it’s enough to speak of her:But it betrays with froth imprudent My stomack. I have never soughtBut it is late, it’s time to go...But its magestic merry fizz Caused foolishness and some misgiving,But jingle of the spurs he hears, Tatyana’s husband just appears,But l forsee some more of bounds: The honour of my land to save,But landlords of the country’s peasants Were never liked by him at feasts;But let it go: at this rate To strive against myself aloneBut let me help with sacred water.But like a house all deserted It’s dark and still, and not by chanceBut liked the spirit of his judging, Judicious talks of that and this.But many days away could get’But may be she’s in love?’ ‘Who knows?But may be those kinds of pictures By now can’t you all attract,But my fateBut never wanted to correct; To censorship I’ll pay my debt;But no answer...But no man in all the district Could ever know of that fuss:-But no one...But none a thought for days is flashing; At neither random nor by chanceBut none she had!But now - God! - is cooling bloodBut now dear moon for us Is mere lantern in the skies.But now doubts all are solved:But now radiant moon’s ray Is dying out, and some quaky From earth gets out steam.‘But now tell;’ she says, ‘to me: Whom did you see in dream with me?’But now, friends, from all my sides -But now, heartily I though Do love my hero fine,But now...But nowadays the frosts are crackling (A rhyme for cra.ckling, one foresees;But nowadays... explain the gist; To feet of mine what is you leading?But often passions were invading The mind of hermits, of my men.But other times in mind I bear!But others made him disappoint! The slow languid was the point.But people! all you are alike Your ancestor, called Eve, foremother: What’s given, hardly it involves, But constantly the Dragon callsBut persons ordinary for us Are never strange, they fit all u.0But really?But riot at all: like long ago For poor bard is on the watchBut road alarm of love then filled me.But saw: annui, the rave, the harm, The fraud; nor shame, nor sense, nor charm;But send your boy, and first of all’ .But sequels of the sudden meeting To-day, my dear reader-friend,But several books of common row Himself excluded from disgrace:But shall I fall by shaft through pierced Or will it pass beside, will slip?But shall I see you?’ - Tanya cries And sheds the tears from her eyes.But she’s neglectful to the singing, To ringing voices of the maids,But simply I to you will send The legends of the Russian realBut something more us separated...But somewhat pale and rather thin, And yet she’s looking rather slim;But soon for husband, all at once,But soon she all was full of go, By it she calmed herself at once:But soon to farming she began To be accustomed and relying.But soon, not asked for her concession, Was to the altar led away.But stealthily the door unlocking Grey-haired nurse already’s walking, With tea on tray is coming up: -My child, it’s time for getting up; But, beauty, you are now ready!But such amusements, yet important, Are worthy of an old apeBut suddenly could part from it, As I from my Onegin did,But suddenly her eyelids close, She hasitates to make a step..,But suddenly her sister’s coming, Then Lensky comes; the light has flashed;But suddenly the wind has blown Away the lire of all lamps:But suddenly was changed it all:But summer’s flying quicker yet.But talk of their dear wives By absent wit him always strikes.But that’s more wonderful and dreadful: A crayfish on a spider rides,But that will do; adieu is [node: For madness tribute you have paid.But then a frenchman took her place.But then with books she could be dealing.But then your horse will try in fearBut then, amused by idle dreamings, Attended to my better feelingsBut then, the love of tender beauties More trusty is than friendship, kin,‘But then... or it not true?.. in desert, From fussy rumours being far,‘But they will have a throng of people And all the other rabble feeble..?.But they would madden it too hard.But they, to whom at friendly meeting My first of stanzas could I cite...But to no person In all the world I’d give my heart,‘But trouble is: they are such bores’.But uncoordinated volumes From devil’s library all got,But was delayed for short a while As they had no rings of fashion.But was my Eugene satisfying By being free in prime of life,But wave and stone, The ice and flame, the verse and proseBut well, its time I should be busy: The beauty’s letter I should use.But well, she’s named Tatyana; gladless, Nor by her sister’s pretty grace,But what I’d want? what task am aiming By opening my heart. to you?But what Tatyana could he thinking When recognized among the guests-But what about?-But what is it -But what severe!But when Vladimir disappeared, Onegin, languished by the bore,But when her thanks for termination To Eugene came, tier languid mood,But when his thoughts were of destroying His own rivals, though few,But when the nurse in summer gathered To Olga all her little friends,But when to country comes the evening The billiard, cues are left again,But where are you? Come! My rightsBut where now he is not... And where left he dismal rot.But where now through them speedsBut where of Melpomen heavy Resounds fine and drawling wail,But whisper, laugh of fools can hurt..’‘But who is she?’ She is my wife,But who is that, in throng selected, Is standing mute and unaffected?‘But who? plump general that big?’But whom to love?But why Talyana should be guilty?- But why you so indisposed Are speaking bad about him?But why, Onegin, you are yawning? -But why? I don’t grasp it yet). And now friends enjoy a chat..But will and power of mind All overcame, and she alreadyBut will it come, my day of freedom?But with Tatyana shan’t we guess.But withered!But wretched is, who’s all foreseeing, Who never felt some ache of head,But yet not sharing with throng Ideas, passions yours life long".But yet she can’t.But yet to make him be at rest Of pleasures won’t be the best.But you are pale... What are you feeling? ‘It’s nothing, nanny, not at all.But you are tortured by the road.But you forgive him, games in stillness!But, being wife, she willy-nilly Yet sighed for man of other kind,But, seems to me I’d wish, of course To fill my fate with kind of glory.Buyánov courted: was refused.Buyánov, my quick-temperd brother, To Eugene brought two girls at once:By Olga’s hand the tea’s been pouring To little cup of guest adoring By dark and sweetly scenting stream; A boy already brings the cream; At window Tatyana’s standing, She’s breathing at the cooling glass And lost in thought quite deep and vast With pretty finger she is melting On misted window’s cool pane Her pattern O.E. again.By bondage Lensky’s fascinated, Gave up his soul to the fun.By chance I met you long ago. A spark of tenderness you showed.By chance his verse yet anyhow Is kept by me; you read this rhyme;By children and by loyal wife With candid never seen in life.By clear smile the nature’s fitting Through dream the year’s morning meetingBy crimson hand not seen by now The dawn from morning towards the layBy cunning husband he was greeted, Of Faublas previous a fan;By deep embarrassment fulfilled She has to stop, she’s standing still.By dreadful exclamation Onegin’s shuddered; slain, impatientBy dreams of distant pretty side, About moon and charming night...By eager enmity exited Vladimir for the answer waits.By fate all counted my days, All painful are they nowadays,By fire of the praise and sighs To tempt the heart of girl yet tries:By got by Olga strange tuition She’s touched, in depth of soul sighs;By greyish Kalmyk: wears glasses And torn a coat, socks in hands;By habits of the life he’s pampered, By somebody he was well tempered,By happy force of own dreamings She brings to life all novel’s beings,By hard from big Tambóv’s engaged; Buyhánov whirls with Pustyakóva,By him were left at your employments.By his anwaited apparition, By instant tenderness of eyes,By honeyed dream he was amusing The doubts of his own heart;By instant cool is all filled up To him Onegin hurries up,By liars secretly prepared, By worldly mob in chorus favoured,By lordly Byron portrait bright, By doll cast-iron and diminishedBy love her grief to lull to sleep, Some uhlan could her flattered keep;By love intoxicated, Embarrassed by the tender shame,By many signs she’s always worried, In secret way all objects hurriedBy name he was Vladimir Lensky. With Göttingen in soul frankly,By new one can’t I be admired I pity old one - it’s true.By night’s benevolent light breathing We mutely reveled and could fail!By nothing bound, I’m a stranger: I thought: the freedom, peace for meBy now from a distant village The idol of the ladies ripe,By one mistrustful old man; Him stately cuckold admitted,By own or by post-chase You get away from city gates.By post-chase he headlong went, Was yawning sweetly before hand,By prudent talk without trite, E ternal morals, prigs surviving,By rays of day will shine the morning And brightly will be playing clay,By sight through panes at moonlight diminish, By this quite pallid feeble light,By sorcery of story’s secrets!By spite of fortune and of mean, While both were beginners then.By their poetic light He own soul did ignite.By this half-tormenting a ramble, By table with a faded candle,By those phantoms he, vain seeker, Should not in vain exhaust himself:By thoughts of her each one another Unfavourably try to daze;By turbid brooks have run all down To meadows, all under flood.By us the habits have been got Instead of happiness from God.By vernal rays all driven now From hills the snows, turned to mud,By whom was tenderness inspired? - With words neglectness who’s admired?By winter carpets, snow-made.By worst of modes: modern fuss, Which is a tyrant for us.By writing verse, the dismal mourner Of parents, with running eyes,ByronCHAPTER EIGHTCHAPTER FIVECHAPTER FOURCHAPTER ONECHAPTER SEVENCHAPTER SIXCHAPTER THREECHAPTER TWOCame in.Can’t now blame: that dreadful time To be more honest could you dare;Can’t wash her arms, her breast and face: Afraid she is of winter ways.Can daily headlong ride full speed; When she alone in the fieldCan hiss; with bearings important, By couplets tortured all the time,Can it be real that at last My youth had withered in the past?Can it he real anyhow Without elegical deedCan know time without fuss: The stomach is the watch for us.Can live like real wise a ma7i: Like that Horatius with cabbageCan press her heart, or a misfortune, That waits for her, is black, makes noise.Can share stillness of pastimes; Long liveCast-iron bridges over waters Will go like a bow wide;Child-Harold’s copy, grim, morose To inner rooms and halls he came;Clarissa, Julie and Delphina; Tatyana in the forest’s stillComes in, of dead has strong resemblance.Comes up to Olga: several jests, And they are whirling near guests.Concerns of heart he was ignoring, He future hopes was adoring,Conditionally by its charms Self-willed desires it alarms.Confess; we have the taste quite mere In life, as well as in the names,Congratulating Tanya dear With first success at fair ringConvert the meadows to pools And bare, leafless make the woods.Coquette is judging always coolly; Tatyana loves without jest,Could catch a neighbour, who by chance Came in - by tragedy at once Him entertained.Could catch the glory by the way: But I in love was dumb, inane.Could change his soul little bit: Some virgin fire flamed in it,Could come of such a lazy mood. He didn’t join the guild existentCould come such proud or obedient, Could be attentive or indifferent;Could give a fright by desperation, With flattery could draw one’s gaze,Could grasp in idle, futile reading, Was not concerned a little bitCould make of clever fool for ever, Explicit or implicit one.Could me enjoy... I’ve had my fill; It is enough!Could my Onegin now find.Could never show shining passion, Nor sparks of poetic light,Could not repeat, yet being shameless, That I could scribble own faceCreation of the hell or sky, This angel, haughty devil wry,Critic strictly Demands from us: be getting ridD’you hear?- D’you joke -D’you know?...D’you see, in front of that small group The two, the uniforms they wear...‘D’you think.’ indeed... suspicions any… But do you see...D’you, Grandison in mind yet keeping?’Dear! come to rue… As in a dream it seems to be...Decayed...Deceased was buried after meeting, The priests and guests were drinking, eating,Decided is.Delights it glorifies itself, Without love it revels self.Departuring date again's belated And can yet run the last of dates.Derzhavin old us was greeting, To tomb descending blessed he us.Described for us the snowfall, {l5} The winter’s bliss and tinges all:Deserted room alone filling You read; it’s Pradt, it’s Walter Scott.Desires, sorrows, some dreamings In soul crowded each day.Despite her soul, such embarrassed, Despite her passions being raised,Devoted to childish leisure 1 hike at lake in desert nature,Devoted to lazy feeling, With void in soul, he resstrainsDevotion to dreams unwitting, Unimitated strange unfitting,Diana’s breasts, the cheeks of Flora Delightful are, my freinds, you see!Did happen any bard in tears To deer love to read with fearsDid never touch hire as before, He caught the sight of nothing more.Did not remember love and spite, Behaved like some indifferent guyDid try to make of that some fun: The country’s freedom has its ownDirects it constantly, each minute At her, who by her own imageDistinguished: bravely to the slush From Kalmyk horse he fell in rush.Dmitriyev.Do comme il faut… (Shishkov, forgive; can’t some good translation give).Do not be angry, dear. you Well know: I am dull for you...Do not reflect Diana’s features, Recalling bygone novel’s creatures,‘Do not.’Does not make cows go out, And when at noon they are forlone,Does not remove from lips his gasping Her quite insensible small hand...Each box in theatre is shining, In pit each stall already boils,Each claps.Each day in grief of separation By fickle fate, too far from youEach day she whispers own myths Of letter to her image dear.Each day was shorter at the noon, The secret canopy of woodEach man has enemies, but yet From friends defend us God a littleEach minute more is captivated By Olga’s beauty so young,Each name from France by Russian name, Forgot princess Alina dear;Each one by nature is restricted By contradictions in himself.Each other day be seen I must, That I am rich in wealthy caste?Each shutter’s open, and dryEach topic’s argued at the meetings: To meditate they were in moodEach year guessed for misses much: From army husbands and the march.Effects, but stepped away anew; He’s blessed much more, who never knewEight years did he kill these ways, And thus he lost of prime young days.Eloquent man, by him invited, Triumphantly the answer trails.Embarrassment, her being tired Arosed pity, he’s admired;Enchanting land! In days of wisdom, Of satire great potentate,Engaged alone with accounts; Or, taking cue like somewhat armours,Enjoyed by thunder of the music From tea with rum at once refusing,Enough he fooled the whole world? At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated. Enough he fooled the whole world…Enough in common way with him We wandered in the world.Enough the boredom on the ways: The journey took them seven days.‘Enough, get up, I now mustEnough, my dear...Enough, my friend, its all the same!Enough... and has been done the burden:Enrolled dandies show here The impudence and fine gilletteEnticing goblet for my love, Its you, who made me drunk with love,Entreaties and confessions making, To speak of anything I feel,Etcetera.Eternal choir or the waves, To lord of world the hymn of praise.Eugene’s letter to TatyanaEvery country eaterExactly...Explain to you, do it frankly.Expresses death but not the torture.Extinguished ash will not be heating, Without tears I am sadFare thee well, and if for ever 							Still for ever, fare thee well.Feocrite, Gomer were reproved, Yet Adam Smith was well approved,Field is clear In moonlight all it seems like silver.Fille était fille, elle était amourese. She was a girl She was in love.First time appeared at the rim Of outlines of my free novel.First time indeed my muse just now To worldly rout I can lead;Five hundred years), roads, may be, In all the state will change invently:Fonvizin shone, a friend of freedom, Knyazhnin was always up-to-date.For Russian heart too much is fused And echoed in it through muse!For all his thoughts it was a passage - Unusual tongue of maiden’s dreams.For all of thatFor all the childish tricks felt sorry, To them was stranger; dreadful storyFor boston, lomber come in sight, For whist, well famous until now.For centures to make him known.For changes fated anyhow...For coddled sense the best of pleasures: Perfume in bottles of cut glass.For district mothers pleasant image - The regimental chief arrived.For epigrams was always greedy With everything quite cross a Dan;For evening party...For evening whist who’s coming briskly, Sits down, plays not very hard,For fair of the brides her bring,For fantoms I my eyelids closed; But some remote dear hopesFor flirt she never gives a hint - For that high world is never fit.For flying glory don’t long.For garden now we shall fleet In which she’s got with him to meet.For greetings and congratulations She gives each one her thankful look.For her cotillion now seems Like long and heavy dreadful dreams,For her he’s looking on... for nought...For her the truthful sign it was That guests are coming.For him she never will he waiting; In him she always must be hatingFor him the aim of life was smart Quite puzzling riddle, much alluring,(For him to hide was very easy By riding stallion from the Don,For him two hearts, I can believe, Yet are in grief...For his delight were just awaiting.For hopes; then misunderstanding Well use to break the heart; againFor hot discussions of the gentry, The terror of the midnight sentry;For how long?For husband then she was yet bride.For intricate and slander talk, In checking all my traits for mock,For it I shall repay a lot By my admission, truly artless;For long Onegin couldn't bear That tragical and nervous moodFor long Tatyana here goes At stylish fascinating cell.For long as if through fog she one Could follow them all with eyes...For long by fate of Lensky, striking, Unwittingly her soul’s filledFor long has chance with us to be?For long is weeping she this time.For long to hear, understand Perfections yours, all them confessingFor long to wish, your knees embracing, And weeping at your dear feet,For love all ages are submissive But to the innocent young heartFor love she’s dedicated truly Like loyal child for mother’s nest,For me is now hard the gladness, Not only the grief... my heart...For me the glory bring, of course: Wry talks, the noise, a lot of curse!For me your honour is the bail, I trust you bravely all my feeling...For merry dispute he was able To be in answers dull or sharp,For mill they all have had resolved At dawn in time to come in carriageFor my mistakes in Russian grammar, - Help God to find in all this bookFor noise of fuss such brilliant, bright.For noise, for storms, for many feasts, For everything! For all your giftsFor nowhere am I smart...For pranks or weakness of the dear... (That’s all he knew in own world...)For pranks reproved with gentle talks, To Summer Garden took for walks.For quiet leisure after work; For lively pictures, salted word;For silent room alone getting At once the whole world forgetting With nobody nearby‘For single winter it will do, At least I’ll credit money you’…For tears her, by will suppressed - Her heart is torn in half at breast,For tears, rhymes and so on?… Present me her’.For teeth the brushes, and for nails, Some thirty kinds for all avails.For that a neighbour in his farming Was puffing up: to his big farmFor that at distance poor dwelling, For place, in which the first toy time,‘For the sake of goodness, You keep the eclog, now useless.For theatre Onegin’s speeding. In it each man is free at all:For them to love yet meant to grieve, To scare males was joy for ages.For thoughtful singing with attention?’For us are only some tools, And all ones passionate are fools.For us fine Hymen now makes And maybe yet for many days.For weeks matchmaker was then coming To all my kin, and due to thatFor what and where do I strive?For words of love to be entreating, First move of heart to catch by chance,For world has done yet nothing titling, To grow male yet hadn’t timeFor you the glory and the laud, The father’s land, incarceration?Forbidding goddess, guile inventive, Of reigning, sumptuous Neva fine.Forgive me’.Forgive me thickets In which my days have passed away,Forgive me you, my dear nature; I change my world such still and lightForgive me, but my love is deep To Tanya’s dear heart indeed.‘Forgive me, ever peaceful valleys, Hill peaks well known under heavens,Forgive me, isn’t it too hard?’ -For me it’s not - ‘But dear bard,Forgive!‘Forgive, my place, my peaceful mate!Forgive, secluded my asylum!Forgot the town and the friends, And boredom of the festive blends.Forgotten features can remind.Four fatal for the life the stages...«Freischutz» lovely tune But played by pupils in a Fume.From Bade that sceptical was reading, With works of Fontanelle was meeting.From Eugene differ I my image, To note this I always trend,From Romul to the present day - In depth of mind he kept away.From archives coining several youngsters In throng at Tanya stiffly gaze,From bed Onegin wasn’t moving, The dream yet flies about him.From bed to icy bath had fallen And afterwards was whole daysFrom cold world of dissipation To fade away not having time,From early times he was dissembling, Some hidden hope he could leave,From everything to me legated, I had my heart for ever torn;From glass not stopping For a while’. He never kisses hands of ladies,From here, deeply lost in thought, He looked at threatening flame he got.From morning forth I must be sure, That I shall see you just to-day.From mountains descends this wayFrom novel’s only beginning — I’ve finished now chapter one.From pistol he, not being rattled, At fifteen metres stuck the ace.From saucers, filled with clear waters Some rings get out as on trottersFrom them: she new blazes greatly, She feels herself in passion badly;From two to thirty years on; The district dandy Petushkóv,Gets out, asks for own horse And rides.Give arguments, but I do not: To quarrel ages don’t want.Go on!God knows, whom by words you dart; Of elegies the precious codeGood guy and sergeant of the guards, This Grandison could play the cards.Good heavens! Never did she shudder! Nor sudden paleness, redness has...Good-bye, the witness of past glory, Petrovsky castle.Goodness me!Goodness me, it isn’t For him to hear!Grand treaty’s ditties exercise; The foes stand and drop the eyes.Grandchildren once upon good day Will press from world all us away.Grandfathers to the tombs do press, It comes, the time of exitation,Great charm to any conversation.Green tables are prepaired now, All active players they invite:Grey-haired couple of Scotinin With all the children you’d be seeingGriboyedovGvozdin, good master, who could shortly Make beggars of his peasants fast.H’m, h’m! You, generous my readers, Are all your kinsfolk o’key?Half-aireal and resplended, To magic bow all attended,Haphazard wander to prevent.Has been enlivened all the talk; In front of hostess light rotHas breathed, has wailed; from nothern shelf Enchanting winter comes herself.Has brought. the sun and anyhow The merry festival name-day .Has come; to servant says he will Lepage’s fatal barrels steadyHas fallen…Has found end untimely hard!Has mined great life-giving voice, And after funeral sad habitHas own place to have a rest, From porch to maiden’s.Has withered at the morning dawn., The fire at the altar’s gone.Have been decayed in nature’s train Like leaves in autumn, full of rain.Have less in difference between Each one.He’ll fascinate you, I am sure, By picturing in flaming verseHe’ll never hear hymn of times, The blessing of the future tribes.He’s always frowned, taciturn, He’s chilly, jealous, angry turned!He’s blessed, who feast of life was leaving In time, not drinking to the endHe’s blessed, who in his youth was youthful! He’s blessed, who well in time was ripe.He’s blessed, who with his love combinedHe’s blessed... But may be she has been Amused by other, not by him.He’s handsome, rich, of fair manner. And neighbours said: he needs a bride.He’s happy now just to throw On shoulders her fluffy wrap,He’s hiking. Never, I believe, He has been bothered that I grieve.’He’s ignoramus’, said the neighbours, ’He is free-thinker, drinks red wineHe’s killed!..He’s killing Lensky; horrid shading Lays down, then a dreadful cryHe’s languished by the hits rebuffing, Attentive in the still and noiseHe’s not a fool; Onegin, grudging, Did not respect the heart of his;He’s not been seen, none word from dear;He’s now languished by remorse, He’s being ready to beg pardon,He’s puffing, he is remonstrating, He swore to devil Lensky’s head For sufferings, he here had.He’s rumbling, quickly he gets up, For door he nears, ail got up.He’s trembling, loses fitting words, He’s happy, has improved his health,He’s very glad that former pass He changed for anything at last.He aimlessly began to wander, With passions only agrees,He bowed. Unattending body, At stage he looked as if by chance,He brought from Germany his dear, As poet, of learning fruits,He calmly sleeps in bed, retired From pastimes, flourishing big child.He came, What news, such sentimental!He can’t endure such a blow; The whims of women he can curse.He can’t give happiness at large’.He cast a glance at ladies’ tires, At circles but with looks, attiresHe ceased to fall in love with beauties And dangled after like the rest;He ceased to like (with them was led) Invectives, sables and the lead.He comes: the corks for ceiling pass, The wine like comet splashes fast.He comforts her in all her griefs And constantly with her he sleeps.He could his feelings there show But not to bristle like a beast.He couldn’t be a bard for ever, He didn’t go mad or die,He curses all unbidden guests; And half alive she can’t have breath..He did believe, that soul dear Will join enevitably him,He didn’t want by any way But by the rules of artful fashion,He didn’t want to cheat meanwile The trusting heart of pure being.He died at hour of dinner, Bermoned by his neighbours dear,He differed people in effect, And other’s passions could respect.He doesn’t gather them with horn. A maiden’s singing in her house,He doesn’t go, ready now To write to ancestors: to hailHe for meeting Arrived; is coming... just has gotHe found house full of servants; To see deceased, from any sidesHe gave his hard; in all her grievance (As they would say, it was unwitnessed)He had of books, as no harm In them he saw, but no charmHe has a trouble from the feeling Of spook of unreturning day.He hasn’t any fascinations, But has some snake of recollections,He hurries up to live, As well as he does to feel.He hurries up to ring.He is seeking New ways. The second day, the thirdHe is suspending This quite unpleasant tete-a-tete.He isn’t here...He isn’t more… The youngling bardHe joked in a funny manner, Could fool an idiot for fun,He kept me often in his hands, While I could show many pranksHe knew the Latin anyhow: To talk about epigraf,He laughs - they all are laughing further: He frowns - all are srient, wry.He left with real consolation Of woods and valleys isolation,He liked the grove’s timid thickness,He liked the stillness, lone mood, The night, the stars, the round moon.He looked for girls without passion And left them all with none compassion,He looks al her with tender ardour; He’s yet beloved with previous force,He looks and sees: the time is high Away from yard for mill to fly.He looks, he calls him - all’s for nothing!He loved the method with his passion: To make a man on earth to layHe made me love him with insistence And couldn’t find some better test.He makes a sign and all they bother; He drinks and all they drink and cry;He may each entrechat catcall, Or hiss Moina, Fedra greeting;He mutely bowed to the girl, His gaze somehow was in allHe never wished to rummage quickly In chronological thick dustHe now leaves the noisy rout. He goes home, has to think;He offers necessary service And dressing-gown puts on him.He opened a door."He pined away, he was dissuading, Was dull and jealous, made believe;He puzzled over effect, In it could miracles suspect.He quickly sleepy was from them, And grasped all clearly by then:He real bard resented there, When all alone, lost in haze,He rules her, but neglectly gliding, And, bending, whispers her his finding:He sang of how life could fade; All that in his teenage he made.He sang of love, for love was loyal, His song was clear like the noon,He sang of partings and of griefs, Of something, foggy misbeliefs,He saw in it some dreadful harm; The other smiled, but smile was cunning;He sees some smelted snow; now, As if he sleeps in some doss-house,He shouts: ‘Stop your own crying And croaking the same, and whining,He showed tenderness. Such start Enlivens poor Tama’s heart.He slept and coffee had he here, His menager’s reports could hear,He so used to live in visions That he could go mad quite freeHe speeds her up the forest road; Through trees is seen a dwelling old,He speeds through Petersburg, all restless, Awoken by drums’s beat.He stepped away... he turned a bit..’-He thinks of here:He thought she would be much confused, By his arrival much abused;He thought: a fool would trouble his Such quickly fading high affection,He trembles... to princess he’s coming; His Tanya lone he is finding_He tried his cooling word to own, To keep away from man like this;He tried, but of the work persistent He felt yet sickness. Nothing goodHe under chest was wounded here, The blood yet steaming flew at ease.He wanted to establish own, In orders newer fashioned line:He was a common Russian barin, Was kind and good; at his remainsHe was afraid of being answeredHe was beloved.., at least was grateful To have such hope like a balm.He was enabled, slightly rushing, To speak of anything at once,He was in dances quick and light, Without tension he could bow:He was mistaken: sleeping fair — Onegin then for world was dead,He was to blame at times more thickly: At first, he wasn’t right at allHe would have known life quite real, At fourty gout would have had,He writes of all that he can hear Or see of Olga in the near,He, dandy in his prime, approves All Kant’s ideas and his moves.He, might be, for the world’s welfare Or even for the fame was born;He, touching witness, captivated By childish prettiness of gamesHealthy all...Her Russian was yet very bad As Russian books she never read.Her belt of silk she is removing, Undressed is going to bed,Her breast as yet is greatly trembling,Her chest is high, her cheeks are covered By instant flame, they quickly flowered,Her dream is sinister, it all At sad adventures pointed out.Her easy dreams by other dreams; As well as trees can change the leavesHer face but has of wrath a track...Her father was good-humoured being, From age retarted. Scornful feelingHer grief she never hides And lone in the woods she hikes."Her head to shoulder’s inclining, Her light chemise is now sliding From charming shoulder away...Her head; is seeming to be ready For deep a faint, this being mild;Her husband’s love to wife was hearty, Her deeds he took for mere crank,Her husband comes.Her letter of unwitting kind By love of innocence is breathing.Her love but fright nevertheless, Main person of this novel pretty!Her maiden’s mirror yet she keeps.Her movements were unhurried, slow. Nor cool, nor talkative is, thoughHer neck was caught by long a bough, Then branches could her ears meetHer own house they have come; The door wide open was doneHer real doubt Zadeka never could resolve!Her role how firmly played,Her secret heat, of which she dreamt, Whose plenitude ih heart she felt.Her soul managed to engage; And near him Tatyana seeingHer spirit longed for fatal food; Long since unbearable anguishHer summer shoes quite wet through all; Then she her handkerchief lets fall.Her tender fingers didn’t dare To take a needle; she could neverHer thought is hiking everywhere, Forgotten are the bail, the world.Her tired look and slipped away...Her way is crossing, then she feels Herself embarrased; and of tears,Her young and dear, pretty, charming, Her confidante, her near darling‘Here’s He! that’s Eugene!Him call to sit to samovar, And Doonya quickly gives him tea,Him nothing there can alarm, The world for him is shut dud dumb?Him scenting, horses on the road All snort, and travellers quickly hold:Himself consoled if not suited, Betrayed - was glad to have a rest,Himself should show as the hard Without prejudices headingHis French was so perfect now, That he could chat, as well as write,His Olga’s jumping from the porch Like feather-brained and trail a hope:His ardent talk was full of haze;His conscience Lensky was revealing, His own soul criticized.His epigram’s unwaited file Could make all pretty ladies smile.His everyday employments rather In details I should well describe.His eyes the books were reading, But all his thoughts were far away;His father didn’t understand Arid put in pledge the whole land,His father served for many years, And fell in debt, such big and vast,His friends arrived like vile observers Who come to funerals all times.His geese and ducks tie breeds for fee And teaches children ABC.His genius was unique, alone, He knew of something best of all,His heart is pressed, fulfilled with bore,His heart was sad, his voice was mournful.His heart, Vladimir qickly penned At tomb a madrigal by hand.His horse the snow feels at present, Its trotting, lazily away.His house stood in place selected, From winds by mountains protected,His illness never was distinguished From illness, known so far,His letter’s here, quite exact.His life’s monotonous and is mixed, The same for many days is fixed,His life was calm, without woe. Sometimes his neighbours in his homeHis look was always quick and tender,His lunch him answered with politeness.His lyre, now mute, could dare Alarm a loud peal for long,His misty, foggy gazeHis morbid and quite dying look,His nets for them were so frightening!His nose, shoulders could raise The general, by her amazed.His own tender verse he leaves Like monument to his affections,His own works?His passions were too quickly cold, And he was bored by worldly noise;His pen with love is always sighing Without coolness of the wit:His pistol then Onegin raisesHis scandal talks were such backbiting!His servant Guillot from France, is running in,His sharp, but somewhat cooling wit.His soul’s warmed with inspiration By lady’s greetings, friendly kind.His style to pompous tune rerversing An ardent author tried sometimesHis temper, in his chair sitting, And aims to own each other’s brains;His verse is sluggish and obscure (It’s called romanticism by us;His wife herself such feeling had: From Richardson to be quite mad.His wig yet smoothing by his hand Of her inquires old man.His wish to sacrifice his fate; But for the end (to make impression)His wit of poet was milding; His constantly inspired faze, -HorHow would you not love Moscow?Hurra! we all have reached the land.I’d cheer up imagination By picture where love yet strives.I’d like anew to warn all you: You, mothers, should be more severe,I’d like to use the Alban’s model: In Petersburg to show ball.‘I’ll be defender; I’ll not endure when offender‘I’ll perish, - says my Tanya’s voice - From him to die is pleasant fortune.I’ll simply say without fevers: If previous idol I could find,I’ll take a look and then turn’,I’m free, but look for union, geared In sound, sense and temper game/-I’m glad. - ‘but when?’ -Well, now just, They will receive with pleasure us.I’m greatful for the good enjoyments, For sadness, for the pretty torments,I’m hiking round pretty lake, Some flocks of ducks by chance awoke,‘I’m neighbour just’.‘I’m not quite made to be much happy. My soul’s alien for bliss;I’m sorry that you go… well, My dear Lensky, will you tell,I’m unknown...I’ve been deprived of that; I race, At hazard after you I’m dangling:I’ve heard some voice of new desire, I’ve got new sorrow anew;I’ve read it up:I…’ -But you are boringIIIIIIII — It sparkles by Hippocrene’s role, It was by own play and foamI am engulfed by trembling vice: An epigram is being readyI ask: be patient for a time;I can’t I am at will your own And I give up to all my fate.I can’t foresee any objection To this representation made.I can foresee: you’ll be abused By sad and secret explanation.I can your frankness estimate, It made my feelings agitateI cannot show to the end As I must go after speakingI checked it all, and very strictly; In many places contradictory,I could defineI didn’t dare to believe: Cave no start to habits dear,I do remember them; in dream They trouble all my heart, such grim.I don’t grasp despite endeavours; You listen to (if I am right?)I don’t grudge: why should I grudge?‘I don’t hamper you, but dear, For evenings where have you gone?I don’t like the Russian speeches Without grammar incompleteness, As well as lips without smile.I don’t mean to please grand people.I dread to read again...I dread: in my submissive prayers You’ll see by strict, severe gaze‘I fell in love’, again she whispers In nurse’s ear in dismay.‘I fell in love... you’d get awayI grasp its vanity, and never Too much I was attached to it;I had happened To know many old legends,-I hate your world of fashion marbles, Much more I like the world indoors,I have without any doubts Tatyana’s letter to translate.I haven’t force... is tired breast…I keep in mind the sea, quite stormy: What envious I was when wavesI knew some difficult young ladies' Like winter cold, pure, light,I know, you were sent by goodness, You’ll be my guard until the end,I know: Parny’s tender rhymes Make no hit at present times.I lagged behind as their member And ran away...I last and poor mite was giving For you myself, remember this;I like teenage’s lively madness, The tightness, brightness and the gladness;I like the friendly idle speakings And friendly howl of sweet wineI liked his features in the past:I live and write not for applause,I love him, he’s my kin in-law.I love you (why should I be cunning?).I love you, but with love of brother And may be tenderer indeed.I loved you, I for love had hunger, But what in all your heart could find?I might be deeply loving you, But getting used I’d run from you;I never wished with such a torture To kiss young Armid’s pretty lips,I now see, of it confessing, That even my such poor styleI prize my hours, my days: But I’m in idle boredom wastingI saw myself in cherished dreamI saw, Onegin, you in life. For cemetry, eternal settingI see you strong already!‘I see, in world you’ve been too rare...I see: my age is short: to cure My life for every other day,I simply wrote Of idle, blackish dreams of mine;I stop!I thought that time: will do, perhaps; But what d’you think? again collapse!’I very much this word am liking, But cannot I this word translate,I wait: with glance when you approach Some hopes give to poor heart Or heavy dream you stop by hard Alas! deserved by me reproach.I was embittered, he… unfit.I was his friend some while ago.I was in love with it sometimes, But soon was bored by pretty creatures.I was taking you in hands!‘I weep... If that your Tanya old Till now you could not forget,I would with joy allow To give this masquerade by now,I write it, as for long my time I haven’t any sin of mine.I write to you - what more or other To add to all by this is said?I write, and heart yet isn’t boring, The pen unwitting isn’t drawingI, II, III, IV, V, VI, VIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIVIVIVIVIVIVIVIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIambus he, at frank confession, From trochee couldn’t tell meanwhile.Ideal image, Tanya’s rhyme...If I had any hope rigid Not often, mere once a week,(If I had right for some decisions) I would prefer to slighting feelings,If I were poet like you.‘If I would wish to have restricted My life by family, you see,If by my lot I were convicted A husband, father just to be,If by the family best vision For instant I’d be charmed with reason,-If mincing cat, on stove sitting, While purring could his muzzle wash,If not... if not, let God deliver!If she’s seeingIf that Fillidae you can show, The subject for the pen to mourn,If their district visits on?If you could know, what’s diminished To languish in the thirst for love,Imagine: I’m alone, thus From no man have understanding...Immense and light, at distance waiting; Through glasses old people guessImplacable at their ages, Inscrutable for all my mind;Importantly repeats for doll The mother’s lessons, though small.Impossible!?In Africa; at any step To sigh about mirky Russia,In France of cooking highest gauge; And pie train Strassburg, freshly driven,In Harold cloak, hat with brim, Or other whims interpretation?In Tanya’s, Olga’s rooms all maidens Already happy dreams have had;In actions husband’s mutilated, And us for that at court caress?In afternoon they squash and crowd, In drawing room they meet new face;In all her charms, to steppes yet bound, I can with jealous shyness poop.In all of them restriction’s queer; Antiquity the old backs.‘In all the world its most badly To see in family the wifeIn book’s short contents, finds she out Some words that should explain aboutIn brackets I would like to note: You haven’t more insulting lie,In brackets to the point I’d note: In all my verses, by my rhymeIn cold heart is kindling blood... Again the grief, of love the flood!In coolness of the gloomy grove With purl and babble of still streams,In country’s place the man of wisdom, He gave his serfs a piece of freedom:In country lyre is more ringing, More vivid are creative dreams.In country tedium’s prevailing Without palaces or streets,In crowd everybody renders:In dark my Tanya’s quite upset With nurse in whisper has a chat:In days of gaiety and wishes I could at ballets lose my wit;In deserts of the heaven’s districts, The goddess of the sighs and secrets.In duels classic, pedant crossIn early spring of every year.In eastern comfort being cherished Sad northern snow to embellish.In epigrams it. would be fitting...). But let’s return to lady sitting.In eyes with dismal thought of brains, Arid with a book in French in hands.In fear I was crying, darling,In fear shameful heart is sinking.In flame by wit to cool each minute The agitation in the blood;In form of merry, pretty jest With somewhat ruse, to have the breastIn front of darkened silent homes, Along the sleepy streets in rows;In front of flaming fire-place Was Benedetta purring fairIn front of him gay fancy’s giving His Pharaoh, and tries to fit;In front of tenderness quite plain, In front of soul playful, frail...In front of them when they were near White-stone Moscow they saw:In front of you in pangs to stand, To pale, to fade... That is the blessing?In front of you with signs of death Is stiffening slowly, is cooling,In fruitless speeches drily fuse inquiries, some gossips, news,In gallery the claps are flying, And rising curtain makes a noise.In games with doll can train for mild Decorum of the loyal living:In general he gave them hell, But any rule has some exception:In great confusion she is hastening, While falling star yet isn’t fading,In grief of love Tatyana goes To their garden, she is sad;In hands I have Tatyana’s letter. It’s kept by me with sacred sigh.In hands my fate for ever now, In front of you I tears shed: Defend my soul anyhow...In happy heat on moral lecture By chance could give her like preceptor?In haze are now minds of people: The moral them to sleep just makes;In heaps, forgotten in the streets.In hearty letter, as its sender, He was slipshod.In her could never find a hook To use the word on fashion’s duty,In his first youth he was untrained,In hope that by future friend Of me some sound will be said.In horror Tanya is awaking...In house-keeping he was best Arid any problems put to test:In icy bottle for the poet Sometimes is brought at proper time.In it a friend of joys quite virgin Could bless the sky if cast a look.In it immersed, he there quite The whole world again denied,In it, in spite of rules of spelling Excessive verse, as they are telling,In it, sometimes, on rare sundays At window, in glasses, heIn languish of the heart remorses He pressed his pistol in his hand,In languish of the loving bounds He’s spending now day and night.In languish of unwitting pities Onegin quickly at her feel is...In late of evening, such amusing, Along the Petersburg high-way,In letters though he againIn life with us like new it’s hiking, And hardly will it have good fate.In man’s attire all arrayed, The goddess comes to masquerade.In many trends he’d change his habit: Would part with muses, would be married,In noise of world and in the still Disturb my soul’s quiet dream.In one he saw of brandies order, In other found debit book,In open light dress comes out, At moon her mirror’s aiming down,In order that derisive reader, Or any editor, too eagerIn own dreams all’s being lost For long Tatyana goes forth.In own family she was Like strange a girl in thoughts quite lost;In own village to appear New landlord in a droshky came,In paper cap for each of us To open his wasistdas.In pocket he, as Frenchman real, Has brought for his Tatyana dear,In pride they were with males indifferent. At distance stayed from praise and sighs.In proud, touching inflammation Is blushing crimson.In sadness he it all was reading, At once he hurried for the meeting,In shade of branch some simple cross On grave of dear, poor nurse.In shade of old trees protective, He was in games her mate effective.In shade of two pine-trees quite old; Inscription can to you explain:In single image they confused, In one Onegin all were fused.In sledge he’s sitting now. -Away, away! - the driver marks,In slow gait, quite fast and smoothly Have come the fourth already step.In snow-drifts in front of maiden A stream is boiling, all is raging,In songs could proudly retain For all his life exalted passionsIn spite of Foebus warning notes Myself I’ll humble to the prose, When novels in the old waysIn spring at grass and so forth, At iron fire-place in winters,In stillness of the humble grove Of innocence some charming loom,In summer Eugene lived like hermit: Past six was getting up in hamlet,In sunny rays all sparkling, shining A block of snow hardly sliding.In talks all’s plain, its all indifferent, Yet slander they without interest;In tears women have embraced And exclamations have been raised.In tender manner they agree.In them I’ll write of simple speeches Of dad, of uncle, old man:In them I marvelled at the virtue And fashioned arrogance, that hurts you,In them he draws the country whole, The Kyprid’s temple, graves alone:In them in stillness of the day He real tears could expose;In them reflects the whole age And modem man of nowadaysIn them you can’t see any changes, They keep in patterns old gap:-In this I see yet no troubles…In this a dirty pool with you, My friends, I have a bath like you.In thoughts her face too pale he found, She often seemed to be cast down;In times of hopes, tender sadness, Monsieur was driven from the court.(In times, by thorough foundation Of philosophical best rates,In turn to girl were all returning With love to feet to lay themselves.In vain I try to be aware,In village cuckold but good, In wadded overall with hoodIn village, in forgotten stillness Of you I’d never know, thus I wouldn’t know tortures sleepless.In wadded jacket and kerchief The old woman with grey hair.In weep my plait was then undid, With songs to altar us could lead.In what a waste, when? where? how? You, madman. will all them forget?In which 1 loved and suffered hard, And where buried I my heart.In which a bloody, dreadful shade To him appeared every day.In which for winter had a place. Storm windows, the fire-placeIn which they all are cursing me; Some kinds of madrigals, not oral,In which yet streams the clear brook, To flowers, to all the novels,In winter darkness of the night Was captivating heart and mind.In winter here they had dinner With Lensky, neighbour late, as rule...In winter, when the night’s weak shadeIn wonder style To every place he came in time.In young sad soul’s aspirations; And yet much more with dismal passionsIncautious, likely, I was, but me could supplicateIndeed she now could behave Indifferently, could be brave?Indeed, by magnetism’s all forces The mechanism of Russian versesIndeed, d’you have this kind of mate Destined to your severe. fate?Indeed, for long should have the end!Indeed, he’s blessed, the lover tranquil, Who can explain his own dreamsIndeed, you won’t With all your pure flaming heart‘Indeed? - my Eugene’s now thinking, - But is it true?..Induce to have a stop, inviting In front of their charms to kneel.Inheritage, he had by then, Not seeing loss in all, he wastedInspired, I again shall feel you, Your magic voice for me awaits!Instead of praise he gets yet griefs: Alone under Finnish heavensInstead she sees unknown yard, The fence, the kitchen, mews, a cart.Insults all proud paltry males: The wit them presses, needs a space?Insurgent youth is not yet endless. When Eugene was to change his sortInto the box; he now bristles; Undressed, he took some Shiller’s work.Invitations for a meeting?Is being deaf and dumb at all To sad and desperate your call?Is brought a long way off by fate, They must for ever separate.Is cunning liric, who can renderIs drawn, in turn I’ve bad nay time.Is flying from the waxy cell.Is he a parody not yet?Is he the same or quiet now?Is heard; the dwelling all is shaking...Is it because in higher circlesIs it high time as I forgotIs it notIs not it so, friend?Is pictured rather well correctly With his immoral soul wry,Is really the secret’s found?Is sad of passions dead a track; This way the storms of autumn coolnessIs she the same Tatyana real? To whom he privately, in haze,Is spoiled by old duels fan, He’s evil, gossip, talking man...Is time: all good but lazy-bone Epicurean wise all men,Is waiting for the end of dance, And for cotillion her invites.Is whitening on Lukérya Lvovna, The same yet lies Lytibóv Petróvna.Istómina’s in front of pit, With nymths she waits to make a hit.It’s all decided (it’s my version) By heavens board: I’m yours at heart.It’s better place for passing letters fit.It’s both harmful and absorbing.It’s dark in valleys.It’s getting dark; already, shining, Is hissing evening samovar, It heats the tea-pot, brought from China; Light steam is whirling so far.It’s in the backwoods and it all Is bound by the snow-fall,It’s late, the time has gone; his letter To rue was brought; the whole matterIt’s late.‘It’s mine!’ the voice of Eugene thunders! And all the gang has vanished fast.It’s mute for ever all at once.It’s nice by epigram audacious To make erroneous foe mad,It’s nice to see when stubborn gracious He bends his horns to butt is apt,It’s right, of course, but trends of fashion, But of the nature willful pressure,It’s right.‘It’s seven soon, it’s time to wake, Onegin, may be, has to wait’.It’s signed by t.a.v.It’s striking ten; he’s driving out. He’s flying... now he’s at porch.«It’s time to change them in a body,It’s time to leave for life the tightIt’s time, its time to marry her!It’s true, that all we live in ages, When rather boring is high call.It’s true; to you I had boon listening, In stillness spoke. you to meIt’s winter!..It Tanya knew of near duel, At least the day before had heardIt all is still.It all was simple: floors of oak, Divan, the table, large wardrobe,It came, it scattered, it is hanging On boughs of the oak-trees;It caught him now and for ever; But yet to kill himself he never,It could be known by the nurse But slow-witted all she was.It happened. When thunder of mazurka came,It happened: late at time of leisures Two girl-friends, both yet teen-agersIt hurts, he laughs, through window-panes At him his mother’s finger shakes.It in strainIt is benevolent, releasing, Like vernal storms in fields make startIt is forgivable.It is predicting to my gazing Reward, which I can’t be appraising,(It is the same for people simple) To curse him tried this way and that.It lies like carpets, white and waving, Among the fields, around hills.It looked for him through all his life Like own shade or loyal wife.It may be, with itself has carried Some sacred secret; evil choiceIt means the following thing mainly:It means: my noon has come, its needed For me to realize, I see.It might he other: he’d he having Some common, plainful, simple lot:It now; but ‘Bordeaux’ prudent To-day to others nave prefered.It seems to him like something awful To her remind all evening gaps.It seems to me, my wit is fading And silently I perish must.It serves him right: to think if strictly, If secret judge for him to call,It shows traceries affective, Informs of mind’s the secret backs.It was an honourable, pleasant A challenge, or cartel quite short,It was because of cousin dear: In Moscow princess AlinaIt was neglected., large in gauge, Of dryads shelter for an age.It was polite and not discrepant: For duel Lensky called, in short.It was the art of tender passion, By Nazon brightly glorified.It was well known friendly wellcome:It will sometime all us illume, Will gift the world some blessed perfume.Italian nights I shall adore.Its dark.Its here: take it and be ‘tackling’ !) All look like silver snowy fields...Its morning: everyone again Is up. To her it’s all the same.Its nicer, friends, much more when he Is wailing foolishly: its me!Its sad to think, indeed, that vainly The youth was given to all us,Its time for dinner, Guests have hadIts time! - I everyday appeal.Its true, he is unknown version, But really he's honest person!’Its window is brightly shining, Inside much noise and fuss they’ve had;Its worth of fine and charming soul,Iván Petróvich’s fool and bore, Semyón Petróvich stints yet more;Just He! His gaze on her he’s fixing, Like dreadful shade for her he’s reaching,-Just solemn odes you could hear!K. Vyasemsky.Khandra pursued him, always waiting,LLLLLILILILILIILIILIIILIIILIVLIVLIXLVLVLVILVIILVIIILXLa morale est dans 					la natura des choses.La, sotto i giorni nubilosi e brevi, 			Nasce una gente a cui i’morir non dole.Last evening frightful words I’d heard; Thank God!‘Left side?.. but where? what is there?’ I ‘It doesn’t matter, but you look,Lensky sawLess influence on lady’s head; It was, my friends, Martyn Zadeka,Let’s away get rapidly, Him bespatter easilyLet’s come together... take a rest...Let’s go, do thorn such a favour!-Let’s go.- They were quietly driven,Let’s listen, yet without labour, To their talking, short indeed.Let’s readLet’s turn the route we now here To keep in mind of whom I sing...Let’s visit them; you’ll be obliging: Or otherwise you judge yourself:Let give the God his soul chancesLet it be so: you have hadLet me look back.Let us play inventfully, Lot us play more happily,Let us sing in gaiety Song of maidens intimate,Lets attract. brave fellow To the chorus merriful,Like Byron, poet of grace. Or it’s impossible or faithlessLike Harold Child Onegin’s fallen Into the thoughtful lazy haze:Like Harold, Quaker will he fit? Like hypocrite or other fig?Like Julie’s lovers, grand Wollmar, Malek-Adel and De Linar,Like London dandy, well arrayed, First coming to the world he made.Like North Aurora’s face of her, And like a butterfly she flutters.Like convict in the stocks from jail If brought to forests while he’s sleeping,Like crank by chance at feast enormous He’s angry.Like drunkard tight by real Frenchmen Was captivated (dear lot!).Like great Chadayev, Eugene dear Of jealousy reproach feared,Like he, she was well-dressed, in fashion, In best attires every day;Like heat are shining crosses dear; They guilded cupolas adore.Like idol, - you, Omir divine, - For three millenniums in line,Like in a dreadful misty dream Against each other in the stillLike in van Dick’s Madonna finness, Her face is round, red, she’s boonLike life of bard, such simple, honest, Like kiss of love at dawn of day;Like long before make heart my tremble And all my soul always flirts.Like prisoner from any chain Is ready to escape again,Like senseless rhymes of stylish In winter’s even every way.Like shade she aimlessly is hiking And comes into deserted park...Like thoughts of simple lady’s soul, Like dreams of child, or like the moonLike tiresome a rank of ghosts, In face has loftiness or spleen?Like victim under charming veil.Like women, books were all left here,Like young Lenore under noon With me was riding like a loom.Lone in the room In stillness, in the light of moonLong since the girl began to languish, Could burn in bliss, in dismal mood,Lord Byron with his whim successful Enveloped fussy egoism In hopeless romanticism.‘Lord! to her!..Lornette his captious he has got,Lornette his double slantwise renders To see all ladies to be fit,Love-letter secrets on six sheets, The fraud, the gossip, rings, the tears,Made all young heart to pine away, For someone did her soul wait.Maiden’s SongMaiden’s singing intimate, Don’t peep invisiblyMaidens dear, beautiful, We are mates in friendliness,Makes noise, is dark and grey, quite lost Yet isn’t frozen by frost.Malfilatre.Maliciously discuss with smiles: If I was sharp or dull in lies,Malvina’s works but separated For several roubles he abated,Manzony, Herder; was re-reading Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot,Marmontel’s volume them he gave.Martin Zadeka then became The pet of Tanya, and foreverMay I just see the banns home? Them Tanya asked.May be, in vain he was at feasts Such careless and fine at least?May be, the thought to us is coming Amid poetical a dreamMay be, you rose from the clans In those places, or have dears,May be, you saw at Neva’s banks Some ladies of these queer ranks.Mazurka’s sounding.Mazurka is the crowd’s choice; All round are crush and noise;Mazurka now all its rating, Initiative beauties keeps:‘Me?’ - Yes, Tatyana’s name-day happy Will be on Saturday...Meantime account, made for you, In details I shall give to you,MeanwhileMeanwhile Onegin’s stay at Larin’s Was estimated like a news,Meanwhile far off The honest person and ZaretskyMeanwhile he’s dressed for walk at morning, His bolivar he’s having on	{3]Meanwhile her soul’s feelings moan, Her tears filled her languid glance...Meanwhile his eyes off her can’t tear Some general important, grand.Meanwhile in life you try to revel, As much as I you take form it!Meanwhile small foot in hands l feel;Meanwhile some two or three of pages (Some idle gibberish or fables,Meanwhile the Cyclops of the village In front of dimmish forge’s lightMeanwhile the moon was brightly shining, By languid light it was enlightningMeanwhile they most be not a mock, But honourable..!’ - l could hereMeanwhile we all. of Hymen foes, In home life yet see but oneMeanwhile with cold sham to dare To force the speech and look with mockMoldavia, that’s far away From Italy, was end of way.Monotonous and sometimes yet senseless, Like whirlwind of the youthful lives,Monsieur Triquet is on the floor, In jersey, capped, not far from door.Monsieur l’Abbe, a Frenchman mere, To give the boy some chance to rest,More brave than sound man, a grand His message wants to send: weak handMore pretty than a parquette fashioned, The river, clad in ice, is flashy,More sweet, than joys beneath the moon, Will stay of Torkwat’s octaves tune!Most be respected for the life. And true girl-friend in love’s adjustmentMuch longer now she is hiking, But now brook and now hillMuch more... -My Eugene’s standing As if by thunder has been struck,My Eugene is in front of home. Hall porter shadfly he bypassed,My Friends, you know, what it means: With friend of mine I’ve shooting things.My God! what thoughts could come to him!’My God, a scene from novels dear...’ -And that’s my daughter...My Lensky’s feelings all were smeared, He was afraid at her to glance.My Lensky on the dam is leaning, For them impatiently he waits.My Moscow with guilty feeling; Yet neither feast and nor a giftMy Moscow... in this lunationMy Tanya’s hugged by their daughters.My Vanny Was younger, than myself I mean, And I was, dear, yet thirteen.My age inclines for strict a prose, Against light rhymes my age aroseMy bad translation incomplete. Its like of picture poor copy; Or like ofMy cousin dear, Sit down... complex is the life!My dashing Eugene?My dear God, you bless and save!My dear early little bird!My disillusioned lornette, Of joy some careless spectator,‘My dreams and years won’t rather Return to make me new a bit,My father gave consent to wed.My friend Elvina! Nothing hinders To love it under table cloth,My friends, on bard you’d have a pity: Of hopes rain-bowed at primeMy goddesses’ what are you? where?My greetings!‘My habit,..My hearty friend, my friend beloved, You come, I’m husband yours by love!"-My hearty friend, you have some fevers.-My life has been a pawn but fruitless Of meeting with my dear friend;My memory is dark.., I’m granny... And much forgot... of life the lineMy mother in her bitter tears Implored to yield; for Tanya hereMy muse in ethics well embodied!My muse new person just reveals.My pen has no old wishes To spoil some useful flying leafs;My poets! I’d like to hear If I am right; the ladies dearMy poor Lensky with his heart For such a life was born, young bard.My poor Lensky! badly pining Not very long was weeping she.My poor Tanya sits, can’t sleep, And looks into the darkling field.My poor mind...My reader, well he now leaving For long, for ever.’My second? - Eugene said with passion, My friend, monsieur Guiilot, does wait.My soul secret forms was keeping, My muse made all them once more living,My soul, long ago dead, And all for it seems dark ahead?My student’s cell; its sullen tightness At once by rays of hers was lit,My travelling mate, I beg your pardon; My true ideal, you forgive!‘My uncle keeps to honest systems: By falling ill yet not in jest,Necker 					The morality is 					In the nature of things.New Regulus (of honour God) Anew he could the bonds abandon:New generations by some reason, At secret will of great provisionNew way I’m starting, do my best From all past life to take a rest.Next day has come...Night sentries, far from one to other, In stillness called each one another;‘No’.No should disarm him long ago, That young a soul.Nomadic life to better know, Herself with them could wild she go,None soul’s seen in rooms at entrance...Nor Scott, nor Byron, nor Seneka; The Lady’s Fashion Journal hadNor ballets, cards, nor verse one meets.Nor by her pleasant ruddy freshness She’d catch one’s eyes by simple face.Nor foreign beauties so fine, Nor sciences, nor evening partiesNor longest years of the partings, Nor all to muses given time,Nor makes get up without choosing.Nor pictures nor a wisdom thought That Virgin or Racine had got,Nor sharpness, nor some sign of mind, Nor of communal life succession;Nor tubes of stylish expert-men From stalls and boxes ever then.Not Eugene he’s at most?Not a word can slipNot any man can grasp such things; Ignorance many troubles brings’Not by the post-chaise, by jade, And my Tatyana was enjoyingNot far from Tanya, young and grieved, My dear dreamer quite respondent;Not flaming boy for fighting fit But male with honour and the wit.Not grasping ways to understandNot having any higher passion To rhymes to dedicate his life,Not long ago they like brothers Divided meals, ideas, floodNot madrigals my Lensky’s writing In Olga’s album, and indeedNot secret tortures of the evil Would I in prose represent,Not seeing any use of porches Through chink she now stilly watches;(Not speaking of the verses frames). The education can’t adhereNot stopping coming in advance, The first of them to catch a chance.Not very long he could behold The girls as object of his choice;- Not, then!Not...Now spiteful, Like in vendetta they are frightful,O’key, but let us part not frigid. Ah, youth my light! Ah, dear me!O , rus!O Russia!Of ‘Clicquot widow’ or ‘Moet` Some blessed and fine the dry white wineOf British muse some old fables Her dreams disturb, and it enablesOf Buchars, sledges, kitchen-gardens, The merchants, peasants arid the huts,Of Corneille stately genius; there Was known prickly ShakhovskoyOf Giaour, Juan famous singer, With him some more two-three might linger:Of Jouvenale to talk much better, To end with vale own letter,Of Moscow young graces goodOf Russian Terpsichore’s dearOf Russian works he something read, Rejecting nothing for effect;Of State the envoy always spoke About needs, the State had had;Of agitated soul’s feelingsOf album leaflets with his care To decorate he works away;Of all the charming for the bail And would be happy... till I fail!Of any ink not any spot, In room two cupboards they had got:Of art high muses fine impressions He, happy, never put to shame,Of ballet’s noises being tired, Transforming morning into night,Of bard the memory itself Like smoke at blue sky is rather...Of beauties light and fine attires, Of people variegated choirs,Of boasting moustached young guards Who conquered pretty ladies’ hearts.Of bold children’s secret meetings That near lime at brook began.Of city dandies, maidens rich To catch the eyes derisive, ratingOf common thinking, somewhat thoughtful,(Of course you him alredy met;) And counsellor retired Flyánov,Of course, Onegin’s not alone, Who saw her disarray in eyes,Of course, for times you have been seeing A country maiden’s album big,Of course, he thinks, ‘I could be scornful To alt his funny, lying word;Of course, it would be so bold, Describing is what I must hold.Of course, of him I’ll quickly know,- For him I now haven’t time.Of daily troubles.Of dawn the ray all crimson sparkles And Olga opens the door;Of dear friends a pretty chat.Of dreadful fancy all the meanings Tatyana wants to find the end.Of droshky light, remote noise From Million street was heard.Of elegy’s bad garland quickly; To all the rhymers, friends indeed,Of enemy from pistol parried.Of family; not married yet; A real friend, a landlord, ripper;Of feelings quickly came to mind, But now weakly lag behind.Of fraud she knows nothing strictly And wants to dream her life away?Of girls, the tears, faints not rare: Enough he had them all en route.Of girls, which never had that sin As they are only thirteen?Of grievous notes of the heart.Of higher world the queer ladies!Of hope, enmity and love, The blood was boiling, life could laugh.Of how state itself enriches, And how lives, which way and whyOf humble girl some secret love?Of ill princess the joy, caresses Are touching Tanya, but she feelsOf instant thought some slight a trace, But of the same for years race.Of interest she is now full And tries herself the door to pull…Of known ladies feet and legs.Of ladies well-considered dress. I love girls feet. But it’s a stressOf legislator of the halls?Of life her features have but few.Of linden alleys dimmish To places where he then came.Of lively lucid verse’s glow,Of lofty thoughts, of simple things.Of looking back she doesn’t dare And hurries up, she’s quickening steps,Of loos, friends and lover-maids The voice is fading.Of love mad sufferings she’s feeling . Without ceasing for a whileOf many kin suspicious gaze, Of husbands friendship’s heavy haze?Of men, whom I can’t judge for long, As I myself to them belong.Of mind some cold observations,Of mind some vague a thought is moving...Of morning flower which then At halt of life must wither faintly’.Of multiplied his own crank.Of music roar, of candles gleaming, The flash, the whirl of couples quick,Of nightly grief I see none track, Your face is blushing poppy-red.-Of old Kremlin keys to give; But didn’t come at all to himOf old age triumphant customs At home were supported hard:Of old times the heat of feeling, May be, could capture for a while;Of other, old, better spring, And all the heart it is alarmingOf others victories and own The pranks, the hopes and the dreams.Of own life he could forget!Of pale and foggy, sleepy moon The lazy East is yet asleeping, -Of partings, jealous indignation, Of tears of conciliation;Of passions press at last escaping, Again Onegin said of themOf poet, who’s anyhow Convicted to the truthful love:Of praised grandfather’s old age: The Lovelace fame is now rottenedOf proud ladies yet she slips, She now looks, but stilly sits,Of puffing to my face the spring In bosom of the country’s still!Of rhymes the fever: he could double Of poetry sacred scraps,Of sad misgivings she is full, Foresees misfortunes as a rile.Of saint fulfilled generous dreams,Of sense precautions never heeding, To her glass porch too close speeding,Of sleepless nights, of inspirations,Of sorceresses words and peep Delusive are... as their feet.Of stylish words some ready set?Of tears tracks?..Of that two words I must be speaking: Of young my friend I’m now singing,Of theatre strict legislator, Inconstant adorer of later‘Of them my Olga is the younger.Of them some queer clown dismal Her found almost idealOf thoughts dead capital again To raise from dead you’ll give a hope;Of three kibitkas transport own Can bring belongings of the home:Of tortures full, her heart refuges The hopes of her heavy dream.Of traitresses quite young at all, Of mates despised a circle close;Of trusting soul hard confessions, Of pure love such good expressions;Of turnpike pillars white and florid Are seen... Tverskaya gets along...Of tyrant you didn’t fear, But now he your fate has had.Of waters, forests and of hands Is master in the country borders;Of what a languor’s full her breast?Of what the secret book, she hid, In daughter’s bed till day was dreamingOf whom they spoke till the end: N.N. is excellent a man.‘Of whom your own lyre sighs?’ By you I’m often briskly questioned, -Of words for songs of prairie districts...Of world conventions breaking load Like he I lagged behind of fuss,Of writings of the life in past, But ancient anecdotes deeply -Of yard boys family just flies.Of years young but whithered hard,Of young delirium high rage.Of younger beauties generation Will follow the journal’s call:Of youthful passion and of thought, Exalted, tender, bold, prompt?Offended you at bottle badly, Or if yet he, annoyed, quite madlyOh, Brenta! I again shall see you. My dear Adriatic waves,Oh, don’t know dreadful dreams You, my young SvetlanaOh, you, the husbands so honoured!On balcony at morning sitting She liked to meet the break of day,On blue, with slashes covered, ice The sun is gay; the snow’s filthyOn branches of the pine permissive Sometimes an early morning windOn chest he puts his hand, unfortunate, And falls.On day the third at early morning Tatyana saw and was adoring:On earth, then might be by her love She’d joined the friends the day above!On jade postillion’s sitting ragged, Emaciated, beard’s shaggy.On leave the gussars hasten hereOn old prejudices harmful, Eternal secret tombs alarmful,On real price of ancient treaties, On evil, good, on science fruit,On reddish paws a goose, such heavy, To get to waters wants to swim:On river’s batik; and far away In front of it, all looking gay,On roan horses, three abrest; Arid let’s have dinner before rest!On saucers jam they gave, and seldom Some berry water in a jug Put on a table, and a cup.On shaky bench, and own head To Tanya’s shoulder he bends;On sledge the corpse, all icy, lone, He’s taking home dreadful hoard,On steps of world the bard might goOn table’s hissing yet, forlorn...On table Eugene found then For funeral prepared man.On table leaning with slight press, Are sitting, lost in thought. a little,On their foreheads words of Hades: Forever hopes you must leave...On them attentive eyes are fixing By will and passion of the maid.On third day, looking all around, He saw nor copse, nor hill, nor ground;One’s horned, with muzzle of a hound; Another has of cock the head;One day to their isolation And for Tatyana they then bought:One vision always, everywhere, The rime desire comes to dareOnegin’s coining with excuses.Onegin’s fixing eyes upon; Where are compassions, perturbation?Onegin’s life is somewhat sacred; And he, unfeeling, was to itOnegin’s now free from care. In fashion has he cut his hair,Onegin’s out by himself, He goes to redress himself.Onegin’s pining, feels a smart, He seems to be consumption feeling.Onegin’s quick to dress. Already His sernant’s ordered to be readyOnegin’s sitting at the board By stealth is looking at the door.Onegin’s soul always tries Unwittingly to show feelingOnegin Who loved the youth with all his heartOnegin at the first admission To agent of such secret missionOnegin got Tatyana’s message. It quickly touched his soul’s strings:Onegin had that room for living, In which his uncle lived on earth:Onegin is deep sleep just having; The sun is now high in heaven,Onegin my To sleep at home lone flied.Onegin no love could hook in, But listened with a pompous look-inOnegin now enters, For stalls comes over the feet,Onegin quickly recognized The talk of love, which was fulfillingOnegin stilly her is helping And in the corner is her layingOnegin was already ready With me some foreign lands to rate,Onegin was as mute as dust, Tatyana pined for love in secret;Onegin was in eyes of people, (Which were in judgements strict, not feeble,)Onegin, friend of mine for years, Was born on Neva-river’s banks.Onegin, standing up, At window it all read up.‘Onegin, then I was much younger And, seems to me, much more was fine,Onegin.Ooh! What encirclement she has Of christening coldness, princess!Opinion of the public mournful!Opinions of the worldly might...Or Baratinsky with his pen,- Let be you birnt by thunder then!Or Cleopatra may encore (By others to be heard once more).Or Idol mio; dropped by chance On fire journals or his pumps.Or Sbogar, mythical a few.Or am I stranger to enjoyments, To all that gladdens and revives,Or aren’t we glad to see returning Of perished in the autumn leavesOr can he see forgotten foes, Some cravens, slanderers, a swarmOr could be poet with reasons (And I confess - could favour me).Or dismal eye will never findOr even own demon mine. Onegin (him I’ll occupy),Or in the garden hand in hand They walk at morning so grand;Or kind of madcap; sad a version Of some Satanic ugly person,Or may be guessed from far away That uncle his would pass away.Or not for long her heart was shatteredOr on the leaves for recollections, Of other signatures beneathOr on the lyre draws a dove With pens and paints, with all his love;Or otherwise I’d be with rages By all my kin pursued for love.-Or really she guessed not wrong?Or roses of flaming cheeks, Or bosom, which awaits for fortune.Or sleeping over the Lethe The poet is quiet, easy,Or tenderer - like little moth Which sucks spring flower with force;Or that’s because all my disgrace Would eyes attract to you, belated,Or vagrant Melmoth, such distressful, Or Corsair, or Eternal Jew,Or village house - at the pane Is sitting she.., and she again!,.Or when a worm disdained and deadly Is growing out lily’s stemOr where Terpsichore one Amazes all the public youngOr where Thalia’s stilly dreaming To friendly claps yet isn’t listening;Or will he be a lad good natured Like you and I, like all the world?Or with the nature just reviving We close in, confused by mindingOr, as before, he plays the crank?Or, like coquette, he simply boomed? By his good will Or willy-nillyOr, like in fever, can he get A touch of hand, or helps to go‘Pachette!’- Alina!Past clans; the charming dreams of love, Antique moralities beloved.Perfections yours make speech my gappy, Of them I’m not yet worthy, miss.Perhaps I’ll grieve if in a whilePerhaps, in Lethe won’t perish My verse, by wit and heart well made;Perhaps, in front of portrait famous, To people future ignoramousPerhaps, you would agree, that is By marble charms unable NinaPetrarka 			Where days are cloudy and short 			A tribe was there born 			For which to die makes no hurt. (It.)Philosopher among his mates With them his room he decorates.Pm sure... none, They’ll be the family, the one.Polite; with sharp-clawed paw he’s rapping Her hand to offer help; she bendsPossesses half of world existing Much longer, in the softened loomPrepare ruins once for ever...Prepared for the sake of money To sighs, to boredom and to fraudPresents his friend and distant kin.Princess Helena has for ages The same of tulle well made night cap,Princess is staring at him...- Princess, mon ange! -Princess, undone yet before himQuite badly at unknown places, Accustomed to her chamber, fields.Quite charming actresses, he is An honoured cityzen of links.Quite egoistic, selfish, dry, To dreaming dedicated greatlyQuite greatly, when he made a visit, On her was fawning, you should see it!Quite mutely for herself she keeps, Of them to nobody speaks.Quite sad for me is your occurence, The spring, the spring! of love the time!Ran up and not without fightingRather well The grove sleeps.Recalling former love, such free, Perceptible and carefree,Regards of them to you I’m giving.Regret, resentment, being sorry, Some pure love to every boon,Reliably well screwed the flint Is cocked once more.Remembered, though with mistakes, Two little verses of Enaid’s.Reminiscence of old time, Of maiden’s room!Replace the fortune.Report for him was so sudden From steward:Reposes in heart contentment Like drunkard, spending night for payment,Return him life by jealous flame Or otherwise the male offended,Returned; without extra word always ready - shortly said.Revealed his own soul simple, Meanwhile malevolance of peopleRooms are cold, In them some hungry but high-flownRousseau (I’d say as if bypassing), Of how dared pompous GrimRuslan’s, Lyudmila’s friends!Sad and cold,Says yes or no, never да-с Or нет-с’(the words, they all would pass).‘Sed alia temporal’ But rudeness (Like dream of love, the prank of goodness)Sees no use (and not in vain). But hearty pain to be abidingSevere anguish, called a spleen, Was seeking in the world unquiet,Severity instead of kindness; Indeed, for you was neither tidingsShall I again your chorus hear?Shall I portray in truthful picture Secluded study of the best,‘Shall go forth or should return?..Shall see emotional flight?‘Shall we begin?’ ‘Perhaps,’ says Lensky.She’s after me.She’s always bored by loud laughs By noise of their playful muffs.She’s been embarrassed, cannot now Him understand yet anyhow;She’s deaf for greetings of the friends; To hide her tears quickly bendsShe’s dutiful and always modest, As fresh as morning, always gay,She’s getting up with rays of morning, At once she hurries to the fieldsShe’s mere infant, But yet coquette! A giddy instance!She’s not astonished, hasn’t anger...She’s nothing ever entertaining, For life she wouldn’t give a hoot..She’s playful, careless and gay, Well, just the same as every day.She’s running - he is after her; She can’t be running any more,She’s still and simple at a glimpse. She seemed to be a certain copy,She’s stuffy here... In her dreams Transfers for life among the fields,She’s taciturn like that Swetlana,.. When came, at window she sat.-She’s trembling in the heat of fever,	 For him she waits and doesn’t hear That in the garden maidens sing, While they are gathering, not seen, In bushes berries: they were given To sing strict order (while they job To make them banns not to rob As berries never could be eaten: In country they invented then The way the banns to defend!),She’s trembling like persued a doe, Her darkening eyes she hides awayShe’s troubled by the jealous trend: As if some cold foe’s handShe’s up at once, Like shade she’s pale, but no answer...She’s wild and sad, is daily silent. Like forest calf, she’s often frightened,She’s writing, on the table leaning, And always Eugene’s kept in mind,She all is trembling, paling, shying.She capital forgot at distance, Its lustre, all its noisy feasts;She courted… at once decided: To Moscow by winter route!She deathly pale was looking round And all her face was greatly sadShe doesn’t glare at the rest, And doesn’t claim to have success;She doesn’t listen to the guests And curses their idle leisures,She doesn’t say: ‘Let us postpone For multiplying price of ownShe doesn’t see that day is breaking. She sits in bed with hanging head And on her letter isn’t pressing Her well cut out round stamp.She doesn’t see yet any party Which could be helpful in the hook.She enters a deserted yard.She falls on snow - he is swifty: He’s taking her in paws and brings,She feels herself like all her dear Of books beloved main persons feel:She got afraid and in a hurry Tatyana tries away to flyShe had in hand: by fire heat That hero she was meeting.She has been shuddered, but is mute, She eyes Onegin as some good,She hears rings of glasses, hooping Like at the funeral great, long.She hurries up to have a chat.She kept accounts; always then On Saturdays they bath were serving,She kept her manners quite the same, Was quiet bow her again.She like the moon to shine has come Among the wives and maids the one.She liked the books of Richardson Yet no because them all she read.She likes the order, well-composed, Of oligarchial the chats,She looks, and all her own heart More often’s heating and more hard.She loved the fraud about fears Of Richardson and by Rousseau.She makes her figure twine and twist, With quick her foot the foot she beats.She near parents could bloom, Like lilies in the valley grow,She never could caress inspire For parents; it all seemed wrong.She now from the hill comes down, And hardly breathing looks aroundShe opened the feasts In it And praised devices of the chillness,She ordered secretly her granny: Prepare table for a guest...She parts with woman, house keeping, Behind the gates.She runs for forest... he’s about; The flabby snow is knee-deep;She sees a hall forgotten now, A cue on billiard has a rest,She sees: the room is light again, Through window’s a frosty paneShe sighs, assuming as her real Delights of others and the griefs;She spins; a friend of winter night The splinter’s crackling making light.She stayed in frosty tone darkness: Young maiden is with Him at last.She thinks:She tried her corset tight to wear, And Russian “н” in French best mannerShe waited, looked and anyhow She said: well, yes! it must be HeShe waits impatiently for feeling That hearty tremble now fades,She was him asking: For long he's here? Where from?She was the works in fields observing, She salted mushrooms, punished men,She went and went.., All of a sudden Sees manor-house from a hill,She went away.She-neighbour her to outshine, Herself is though dazzling, fine.Shortly each from other Were drifted they by thirst of blood.Should I begin my freedom flight.Since young Tatyana at some hovel With Eugene, in my hazy dream,Sincerely, in grief embracingSlipshod result of my pastimes,Smoke From pipes to chimney flies.Some balls, one children’s entertainment...Some big and shaggy bear comes .. Tatyana: ‘Ah!’ But he becomesSome boys In boat with its oars rowed Along the sleepy Neva’s stream,Some cold wind just blows.Some darkling blessing to invite To know better bliss of lifeSome days was crying, then was trying To get divorce from newly man;Some files of steel for nails, some combs, Some scissors, straight and wry: he ownsSome foreign words, she often writes.Some frame and lace for working fit, In silk embroider never did.Some grove, hamlet under hill, Behind the river sees a garden;Some herds were walking in the scene, By garden canopies were ended,Some kind of trouble was him teasing: For change of places secret cueSome lively rots in long a tale Or hearty letters of young maid.Some loss in all the song’s refrains: The song of cat is best for maids.Some madridgal of old days, And presses hand; at once her faceSome meadows and fields extended; Somewhere villages were seen,Some merry magpies Tanya sees, All mountains were smoothly coveredSome minutes they were silent both, Onegin then to her came upSome neighbours said of the impression That wedding had some pointed time,Some noise by beetle’s raised.Some old ladies had been seated, All capped, with roses, looked wicked;Some other now drew attention, Some other managed with inventionSome other, cool and cold dreams. Some other, more severe issuesSome other...Some poet from ranks of army Signed verse of villaine, though charming.Some real honour and the pride.Some round dance away disperses: Behind the river smoked, blazedSome scornful, cunning, idle ventures, - Your angry blame I grasp in haze.Some several miles from Krasnogóry, From Lensky’s village, there livesSome string of love in her appeared, In love affairs she was gearedSome sweetish torture of the glory His blood excited very soon.Some tears shed at urn my early: ‘He tell in love with me,’ to thinksSome wines to me are not ajusted, Remind a lady-lover rusted,Some words, yet stilly, tries to say, But at the table could she stay.Some wrong and wry neglectful babble Of mispronouncing of wordsSome youthful lover ran again Behind the fuss, but all in vain.Somehow, Without prefaces, just now, For hero of my book Let me attract attentive look:Sometimes Onegin was surprised, With what could mutely coincide;Sometimes allured is for days: With love the Satan jokes makes.Sometimes are troubling wit and heart: Without printing pretty markSometimes could keep his answer dark; Sometimes a quarrel could enableSometimes he dares like in game, By smile of Olga animated,Sometimes himself for tricks on others Was given lessons by the others;Sometimes himself, not as a rule, Could he entrapped like real fool;Sometimes in dream they all, whom dote, To soul mine arrived like guests:Sometimes of him in midnight hazes, Untill yet Morpheus, she believes,Sometimes she’s talkative or dumb, In secret gondola I’ll travelSometimes she beat a house-maid, - All that not asking man she made.Sometimes to Olga he is reading With morals novel for herself,Sometimes will give you all the rate Of all your own real fate.Sometimes with own blood she wrote To lady’s album if by chance,Sometimes with pretty girl a meeting, A young and fresh unwaited kiss,Sometimes, when he’s in bed yet sleeping, Some papers they are bringing him.Somewhere you could look at me, But harmful is the North for me,Still humble, deaf like long before, Still eats and drinks for two or more.(Still previous happiness was feeling) To see my Moscow just kneelingStood Eugene, thoughtful, quite alone, As poet himself described.Submissive to the natural passion Invite to them, become her friends,Such acts insulted neighbours all, They stopped to come to him at all.Such charming, tender.Such custom’s known everywhere: To marry daughters every triedSuch dread! She wants to be away, In thickets of the woods to stay.Such men (I’m first of them to blame) From boredom dear friends became,Such subject’s worthy of your mind: More gentle never you will find.Such time what can you do in village?Surprises deeply all his reeling?THE END‘Tanya though!’ ‘D’you know her?-Tanya, near!Tatyana’s flushing, all she’s trembling - To be to-day he promised me,- Vladimir answers, - may be, he For post now yet is waiting.- Tatyana stands, she drops her eyes As if reproached by the vice.Tatyana’s interest is affected By melting on the fire wax:Tatyana’s letter to Onegin.Tatyana’s now trembling, seeing By what a thought, a note, feelingTatyana’s pale and dismal charms, Her hair down let by chance,Tatyana (Russian in her soul, Herself she doesn’t know why)Tatyana hadn’t any trends To play with them in any weather:Tatyana hardly sighs, the man Addresses her with verse in handTatyana has a dream unknown: As if she lone were to getTatyana heard with indignation All those gossips, but she hadTatyana looks but isn't. soon To this world’s fuss she’s hatred feeling.Tatyana now sighs and moans, The letter’s trembling on her palm, The wafer’s drying on her own Inflamed by fever rigid tongue.Tatyana poor is in heat; in bed she never falls asleep;Tatyana silently curl lean, Her languid head she bent to him;Tatyana steeps.Tatyana to the yard, such wide,Tatyana took advice of nanny; As she in bath-room had to guessTatyana tries to listen better To interests of the common clash;Tatyana trusted legend’s fancies Of simple folk’s old times.Tatyana was the name of sister... Such name we use to gratifyTatyana with her eyes amazing A look at everything can take,Tatyana, ah, Tatyana dear!Tatyana, tell: for whom is it?Tell again, You see, I’m now muddle-headed.Thank God, more clearly - she’s feeling The man, for whom to sigh she hadThanks God, had any wish to try; But at the life his look was wry.That’s what I am.That’s why in French she’s always writing.That Eugene and his friend Vladimir At dawn will argue their livingThat all the best and sacred wishes,	 And all the fresh and pure dreamingsThat dream aroused her misgivings.That gets away of cheecks the flaming.That he’s the head - it all is clear And Tanya has much less of fear;That he at love such timid, tender Last evening joked like offender;That hermit idle and despondent Yet recently in winter livedThat instant I could trunk with reasonThat on the days I meant above, At feet of ladies fox expressionThat recently I was you christening?’That she is good, dull husband knows But at has fate he curses throws,That she, delightless in the near, Is daily waiting just for him;That spring of youth could quickly speed (As I could joke until now)?That their friendship never ends; By unreflected rays effected,That there are by fate selected Of people dear sacred friends;That time in sacramental valleys, At cries of swans, of spring endeavours,That time to all my childish dreamsThat time, when in lyceum’s gardens I flourished quickly, quite serene,That uhlan’s loved by all her soul… At altar now does she standThat uhlan, slave of lot his own, With her should come to regiment.That under gale, en waves in boat All over the sea crossroadThat was the way of Eugene’s thinking.That year pretty autumn weather Too long was staying on in yard,That you had come, my dear vision In darkness came for head of bedThat, giving balls three times a year, He squandered all he had at last.The ‘else’s trends’, for you the best Among dull rhymers and the rest? -The Christmas tide for joy is coming!The Gulnare’s singer imitating Across this Hellespont could swim:The Pans of the district girls, With Olga Petushkóv then whirls,The afternoon he passes, ready Again to waste his day already.The almanacs and all the journals In which to us they lectures give,The ashes patriarchal honoured.The aunts are winking one to other And pushed my Tanya quickly rather,The autumn golden is coming, The nature’s now trembling, paleThe balconies; with lions gate, While on the crosses jackdaws reign.The banks of stopped, unmoving river By shroud are equated here.The bard of feasts, of languid sadness, you had chance to stay with me,The barks, the smacks of kissing maids, The crush, the laugh, the noise are loud.The bear drags behind and groans; In front of them she sees and moans:The beds are made. And any guestThe boston, gossips were in vain, Or dear looks or sighs - all thoseThe boulevards, cossacks and the butts, Drug-stores and towers, the garments,The boy was frisky but with grace.The boys got dogs behind the fence And took the maiden for defence.The branch has no wreath; Beneath, alone, grey and puny,The breath is fading in her lips, She heard some noise, her eyes did glimpse...The brigadier, a slave of God, Has peace by him forever got.The bugs and fleas at stations lone Each minute take your sleep away.The capital’s high pick was there, Of fashion patterns, the elite.The caravan of crying geese For south fleeted. And unwaitedThe chairs, saucepans and the trunks, The matresses and jams in jars,The chief of rakes, a tribune-tippler. — Hut now simply good the headThe clock’s been strikingThe coachman’s on -box with lash In sheepskin coat and red sash.The colonel sent it for the chance.The cool debauchery was known As science of the love: its ownThe cool of humble pride composed, Of ages medley and of ranks.The corvee yoke changed for rate, And serfs were blessing their fate.The crowd now all is waving, A whisper through the hall has flied...The day had gone, but no answer...The days were speeding; heated air Could mean: the spring is coining fine;The depth of mist can it conceal, Of fate right law will it revealThe door of coffin was unclosed: To have new wreath he got a chance;The doubts all confused her soul:The dreams, not bound with this day, The threats, the talkings and predictions,The dreams: fir-trees, the hag, the bores, The East, the bear, snow-stormsThe drive to Moscow! It means the world to see!The driven chairs noise arouse; All throng has rushed to anter-roomThe drivers all themselves incite By clapping; each his master curses...The end of life; of loss confess With no hopes for regaining:The enmity’s afraid in world Of eyes derisive, scornful word!The evening darkness comes along...The evening sky’s more dark.The eyes are blue as depth of heavens, The smile, the flaxen curls of hairs,The fate and life in their turn To their judgement could return.The feather beds, the cocks in cages, The basins, pots, et cetera,The field is dark in pretty gale...The fire’s dead; and under ashes Like gold is the coal’s crust;The fire-place is fading...The first he made - he left you all;The first in life the stormy passions, And they give birth to new impressions,The first of leaflets just can show: Qu’ecrirez-vous sur ces tablettes;The fisher’s fire.The fixing time; the poor bard In silence drops his pistol hardThe foes put the capes on steppe.The foes!The folly’s wicked, giddy, needs Grand rubbish for the grand high persons;The former foe of the orders, The waster, Eugene of the lands,The frames were shaking, trembling there But nowadays the men, like fairThe fright of shame, of evil word? Where are you, cherished happy dreamings,The frost is sparkling, we are glad To everyone of winter prank.The frosty dust did not inhale, With early snow, as it happened,The further I’m from youth my gay,The gardens, chambers before me I could at once all gathered see!The ghosts of unearthly whims, Of sacred poetry dreams?The girl appeared! Laugh was wild!. They all stood gaping for a while,The girls are jumping all around.The grammar; language from abroad For mother tongue they all had got.The great prosperity lo waste - To have at home he intended:The greatest gossip, old cheat, The glutton, grafter, fool a bit.The guessing songs and round dance, On all Whitsundays caught a chance,The habits sugared all her woe Which wasn’t smoothed by any chance:The hall is full of crowd; The music’s weary of sound;The halls enormous is all then trembled, The parquet’s cracks wee heard again.The hamlet, where Eugene’s boring, Is nice and cosy a nook,The hawkers walk, gets up the salesman, Is dragging to cabstand a cabman,The head of Chaldean wise men, — Of dreams the fortune-teller then.The health, the prime of life, its sweetness, The smile, the innocent calm ease,-The heart of somebody he’ll cherish, Arid, kept by touch of truthful fate,The heat of hearts became all cool; Besides we were awaited bothThe heaven’s bodies beam and shine. The bushes, chutes without boundsThe heirs of estate, all cross, Obscenely disputes try to force.The herds make noise; of nightingale The song at silent night is gay.The highways Russia will unite, Connect and cross its any side;The honoured castle was erected Like all such castles: it was fineThe horse for rider proved obedience, The dinner rather well fastidious,The inns are absent.The jams, eternal talk of all: Of rain, of flax, of horses’ stall…’The jumps, moustache, the clicks of heels Are all the same without changingThe killer of his brother-bard; The bard is dead... and that is hard,The kin from distant places rare Have tender welcome everywhere,The knight of freedom and of right, In case like this he wasn’t right.The ladies sit at fire-place; You see in corners whispering maids;.The ladies tried to her to near; The old women smiled on her;The languid wit forever smiles; The heart is still, its never dashing,The lanterns, children, many shops, A palace, gardens, cloisters, flocksThe less we love a pretty woman, The easier she’s liking us,The letter’s ready, has been fit...The lilt, well known round me: Reveilles vous, belle endormie.The love’s foregone, the muse appeared, And clearer my mind became,The love, the plants, the void, the village, The fields! to you I’m staunch a friend.The love; who cooled it with divorcement, By scandal enmity could strand,The maidens tried to pass by quiet In front of tier through hall; and higherThe man, by muses once affected, As usual frowns alt the day.The master’s gone God knows where, Tracks are wrong.The memory of bard, yet youthful, Will sink into oblivion truthful,The men all bowed her more eager And tried to catch the eyes of her.The men confront. All cross in peace. The throng, all humming, takes the seats.The mistress cries, ‘At last you’ve got!’The modern taste of his attire, To keep your curious gaze,The monument in words explains Submissive sinner, Dimitry Larin,The moon, this miracle in heavens, To which we dedicated nightsThe more to light the darkness fits. In vain for fields she’s now looking:The morning pleasant noise arose.The movings, voice, the figure fine, All Olga has... but you can findThe neighbour... order to your guy: Not say a word he must be ready, By no means to call my name!’… -To whom, my dear?The night has many stars, all charming; The brightest one at heaven’s blueThe night is frosty, skies are clear, Of all the heaven’s bodies lightThe night then comes, the moon is mooving Around distant parts of sky;The nightingales, of spring the lovers, At night all sing: dog-rose flowers;The noise, the laughter, running, bows, Mazurka, gallop, waltz.The noisy talks he was escaping; All their prudent talk, such raving,The novel’s pages of my either, At will that name well sanctify.The novels were for many years Her inner life, were liked by her;The novelty with ages smacks.The nurse was using own way To help the girl with cross and pray.The old man had no time To read the books of other kind.The old woman was admired By that advice, such simple, good;The one was Eugene in these deserts, Who could evaluate his gifts.The panes with patterns are like marvel, By snow flocks are covered trees,The peaceful life with him and you, Who pictured Finnish frosts anew.The persons, known everywhere, And wanted fools for trampling feet.The pilgrim young, you know why, Should long ago home fly.The pistols all are now shining, The hammer’s jingling at the lock,The plates and covers jointly clatter, The glasses clink, all filled with wine.The poet in heat of judgement Some nothern poem could cite,The poet, the thoughtful dreamer Was killed by hand of friend for nought!The portraits of the tsars on walls, And motley tiles on stoves.The powder, by grey parts handed, On shelf is falling; an indented,The prince as if anew him sees:The reapers dip the jars for best Arid pleasant clear water daily.The rest all gathered at the hail: Of ball the beuaty shines for all.The rime on frosty days yet sunlit; And sledges; and before the sunsetThe ringing voice of Olga, though, From Larin’s soon forever went:The sadness, gladness, love inflaming They all were ready to reveal.The same I was in time of wisdom,The same is dog, the same’s her man Which is of club the loyal number,The same yet girl, whom he in whim Neglected then like meek for wisdom?The same, from whom he now keeps A letter, where heart her speaks,The seasons country viewsThe secret drives in sledge rehearse; But I am ready to endureThe secrets of the bed of marriage, The garlands of the sweetest loveThe shade of coming storm this way Is darkening all the breaking day.The shades of night are now rare And Vesper’s met by cock ahead.The shepherd’s singing as before And makes bast sandal more and more.The shining skies are now blued.The sledge for race is now ready, In it he’s flying to the mill;The sleigh has stopped; to auntie old, Consumptive now, to beholdThe smile of lips, the move of eyes To catch by loving eyes somewhere;The snow’s crackling... someone’s near... On her tiptoe fast she fliesThe snow’s rose shining charm; On Christmas evenings hazy calm.The snow-drift at once is moving...The snowflakes are flashing, whirl, Like stars at river’s banks they fall.The spring enlightened him, and now From dosed chambers he gets out,The spring of honour, idol last!The spring to country all you calls, The time of work, of fruits, of warmth,The spurs of horse-guards-man are jingling, Each foot of pretty ladies flies,The storm has breathed; his prime such charmingThe surely we may her min Among the nets of tempting fuss.The sweet prosperity and freedom; I read a little, sleep for long,The talkative my lyre’s tired To glorify all haughty ranks.The talks are saved for time much better: The mouths chew, From every sideThe tea’s been brought; the quiet maidens Are taking saucers into hand,The tears of the people’s awe. Katenin there could restoreThe thirst demands some more of drinking To cool hot cutlet’s fat at once,The time for strolles, much inspired, And all seductive, tempting nights.The time is fast, she must be out: For her are waiting so longThe time of day by tea or dinner, Or supper.The time revengeful now nears, In secret Eugene gaily sneers,The time was coming, dull and hard: November stood in front of yard.The tracks of tears; in a chair In front of heroine in griefThe veil on hat she turns away, And superficially is readingThe vice, that’s gentle but not feeble, In novels now celebrates.The waltz is whirling; noisy, taintless, A couple after couple flies.The waters Are still.The way is short, from dear neighbour They go home fast, at speed;The way to keep her man away! And everything became o’key.The whiskers and the bloody tongues, The horns and fingers made of bone -The winter had been longed by nature, In January it snowed hard.The wiser I should get each day: My deeds and rhymes to have corrected,The wish of heart to whisper her.The withering of own days, Which can’t revive by any ways?The woman says:The world said: why, He is a clever, pretty guy.The world will me forget, but you My charming girl, will ever youThe world with smile my muse was electing, The first success lent wings for us,The yard was under snow dense: Parterres, roofs and all the fence;The yawnings, other cold things He never saw in any dreams.The young scapegrace was so deeming, When he by post-chaise in dustThe youthful years would be fading, The soul’s heat would not be hotThemselves to show making booms, To gleam, to charm, to fly to troops.Then all they grandly went away, As if they spent a business day.Then bring to Doonya some guitar,Then changed in strict and quick a mode The maiden’s names by names from France,Then for the babbles due concession To hear of her heart confessionThen gets he out of the yard, At home falls asleep too quickly,Then he for her a chair’s finding, They speak about this and that,Then hoofs, wry trunks, it let alone The tufted tails, the fangs in mugs,Then let the poet enraged To play the fool: at his teenageThen life almighty brings the good: A pompous bloom arid costly fruit,Then sudden caper - and she fleets Like down from Eolus marching,Then supper... time to be in bed, And soon the guests all home get.Then they estimated Each one another; daily forthThen took the friends for last his track Arid each of them the pistol had.Then we’ll submissively obey To hear stories by the wayThere is a place not tar from house In which inspired bard could rouse.‘There is my crony, he said, To warm yourself you must be trying!’They’d better laugh before they hadThey’ve made me marry other man; And I’ll be true to him till end!They all are family the same, The sons of greedy bore at game.They all began to guess of reasons, Invented stealthily decisions,They all can find her somewhat queer Provincial and affected creatureThey all kibitkas brim-full load. All men and women raise a boom.They all replaced for each of roberts; The tea’s been brought.They are alone far from people, Are playing at the board of chess,They argue louder; he’s getting Some long a knife; in short a whileThey bark and laugh, they whistle, clap, They sing and speak, like horses stamp:They bless the harmful ruts of land And ditches of the fatherland.They bring Tatyana to grand meeting The tightness, agitation, heat,They call, And no reason, even gappy, You have for not to come at all.-They didn’t use the word a beauty To call her, but from head to footThey don’t cost yet neither sense, Nor any songs, by them inspired:They don’t listen to, they cry, They argue, laugh and squeak in fright.They friends became.They had a fasting twice a year, They liked of round swing high gear,They had invited several maids With never smiling, sullen face;They harness them in sleighs for road. The breakfast’s ready in the room.They joked, not without sin At Tanya’s suitor made a hint.They kept in peaceful life some customs Of dear old days; it means:They laugh; the guests are now coming.They met each other, riding horse, And then became unseparated.They now play the eighth of roberts, Of whist the braves; eight times in lineThey nowhere turned to her Lornettes of jealous ladies dearThey rush into the yard at once!They sat. The aging sleigh is sliding, Is stilly crawling through the gate.They say, they’d got For that the best in world reward.They say, you are a lone guy, In country’s stillness you are boring.They scared love quite timid, shy., But they attracted lovers byThey see encircled by its grove Petrovsky castle.They speak to him of no more, But being bachelor is bore;They take away the chairs, plates, Them call, they give the friends a place.They were at Shrove-day accustomed To have the fattest Russian blins;They were some secret good traditions Of tender, shady old age:They whisper her, You, Doonya, see!This Russian family seems light, To all the guests it’s always zealous,This kind of book yet doesn’t show The writer’s fancies in a row,This news Tatyana quickly hears.This noise, the lustre and the crooks, For wild a garden, shelves of books,This thoughtful, interesting creation By travelling merchant them was broughtThis way my Eugene was her teaching.Three houses will wait for him.Through all her fate, severe, ruling. This crank, this dangerous and a gloomyThrough grass is snaking, green and purple, Through linden trees for river’s crook.Through kitchen-garden they went home; They came together; no oneThrough magic crystal I could not Myself discern all their lot.Through nose singingly could say, But soon her mood could pass away:Through roar of fiddles never thrives The jealous whisper of styled wives.Through tears never seeing him,Through thickened crowd of the guests, Or handkerchief picks up with jests.Through tight a row of the grandeurs, Of diplomats, of army dandies,Thus you, Yazykov, always wrote In gust of passion of your heart,To Eugene sent his hearty greetings: Some hints on nearness he gave.-To Larin’s -’Oh, looks it strangely: To kill your pretty evenings daily…To Lensky he could listen smiling.To Lensky speaking of himself, Revealing all his heart itself,To Moscow, they need good things.’..,To Petushkóv she never goes; Pykhtín, the hussar, toed to fuseTo Talon’s surely he’s raiding. Kaverin there is awaiting.To aim unseen at forehead pale, At distance try to make him silent.To all he seems to be some strange; In front of him the faces rangeTo all of kin the dinners row They take my Tanya every dayTo all these letters, tears, deeds...To answer her.To ask you: leave, do not be funny. You know, in your heart I findTo barrels go bullets hiding; First time is clicking pistol’s cock.To be Napoleon each wishes, But millions of the two-legged creaturesTo be the rest of year free Congratulations are accustomed;To be with you I cannot go...To bring her features clear, plain, Simplicity of country maidTo brush his nails in front of him, Eloquent madcap, wasn’t grasping.To call Anisya children go, To take the keys from porch they ran;To call some people gets away.To challenge you could try like hell? But in your soul can you tellTo chase the love and all at once To get agreed a secret meeting,To come to tables hand in hand.To comfort sorrow and grief.To conic again to have a look And there lone read some book.To country, people in the groves, To isolated dear nookTo cry, to weep I’m now ready...’ -I see, you are unwell alreadyTo dissipate her greatest woe	 Judicious husband had a go:To doctors he is being sent. The doctors him to waters send.To each grandparent to show Her lazyness dispersed for days.To fix her fate it’s time, I see;To get him up she isn’t asking, Not taking eyes off all his headTo go on with calm a talk, To fix at you the joyful stare!..To grammar will subdue us all, To verse will pay too much attention:To grasp that time he had a chance, But as a student he’s a dunce.To grieve, to talk of new affairs, To laugh, to gossip for a while,To guess the windy youth is tryingTo have a breakfast three together Could make them quickly reconcile,To have a rest and have a hike, That’s why I’ll finish other time.To have a talk with her he triedTo have half-Russian neighbour dear; As quickly as he can appearTo have remorse I haven’t forces; Like Bogdanovich’s all verses I’d like all dear gallicisrns, As well as previous youthful sins.To have some quick and restless fancy? Because her will and wit has hadTo her is drinking first, his rhyme He gives to Tanya at that time.To her it all seemed rather queer, She all forgot, replaced againTo her they gave a little ring, An old song began to sing:To her was due first dream unquiet Of poet: at love the drive,To him among the lines all printed His eyes in spirit always hintedTo him for tree, mysterious rather: Forbidden fruit to have you’d like, Or Eden to itself’s unlike.To him occurs A stubborn, rude idea though,To him she doesn’t pay attention, You strive or die, it is the same:To honest people he belongs: This way the century reforms!To hostess a lady’s heading, Some plump grand general’s behind.To inner porch he goes fast, He’s laying down her at last.To it headlong in simple coach Onegin now has sped upTo jokes mixtured with the bile, To epigrams with no smile.To journalists I put at mercy Of labour mine some real fruit.To judgings by the world severeTo keep the happy stirrup dare...To leave the world I would he sorry.To lesson yours attended I, To-day, you see, the turn is mine.To look at life like at the rite, And follow the decent crowd,To loose his colour he’s beginning: She doesn’t see or she’s too hard!?To make the friends embroiled become, Made friends to barrier to come;To make your dear magic tuning Of beauty’s passion mood, resumingTo me I met sometimes in them! E sempre bene, gentlemen! (37)To me alone could he bring His dawn of life, such sad and stormy!’To me that time you were quite right,’ To you is grateful soul mine...To me true compass now lend‘To me you wrote, Do not deny.‘To me, Onegin, all this splendour, This tinsel of repelling life,To meet a student while departing, Or scholar wearing night cap.To meet princess.To meet the scholar world’s desire I could describe, you’d be amazed.To object of his love and hymns, To beauty dear, nicely languid.To other things let’s make approach: For ballet we shall hurry up.To part Eke friend, but real, eager.To pensiveness she got accustomed From cradle to the present day,To play by her untwisted lock, To kiss the edge of Olga’s frock.To play the cards was used with me.- To pour half-glass you do a favour...To protests of soul’s voice, Suppressed his yawning by his laughing.To queer dreams did not abandon, From mob apart was never standing,To read Apuleius I was ardent, But Cicero I didn’t read,To read... but thoughts yet make him wonder His heart is sad but doesn’t slumber,To rescue, to his hones - peace In grave, in mother-soil at ease!’To reverence for singing that; The poet, such great but shying.To ride a horse in steppe severe?To scratch unfaithful icy path As he’s afraid to fall at last.To see it here even poor I cannot; does it bother us?)To see you more to have a chance. To follow you everywhere;To show his beloved main person As perfect one for all the times,To silent room of bard, alarms And wakens Lensky by appealing:To sit with him all day and night, Not stepping out of his sight.To such an album, being tight, If to confess, I’d like to write,To take it up she can’t, in fear Of bear: he about hangs;To tell her something of the rest; Misgivings hardly squeezed her breast.To tell you all, what he had known, I haven’t any time at all.To their talks pays none attention, In them she sees yet nothing smart,To them He paid his all attention then.To them, to their senseless feasts She brought her fine and dear gifts,To tiresome this drive, all failing, An hour or two they gave;To touch in splendid admiration.To trust his wife he was light-hearted, In dressing-gown ate and drank.To try to find in Russia whole Of them three pairs straight and fine.To try to keep the indignation Her bps, such stubborn, now want!To twenty six of own age. Was weary at leisure oneTo us: from it we have not more Than mincing manners to adore.To village own took her soon; But she was often in a fume,To walk?To what a storm of sudden sensing At heart he now has to duck!To what malicious merry-making, It may be, give a cause for you!To whom in secret you did write Some verse, your sins to justify,‘To whom in throng of jealous girls You dedicated tune of hers?’To whom my vice is not a harm?To whom your hearts were dedicating,- In written Russian they were badTo write about otherself As if about ownself?To you	give with my endeavours And bows.To you I’ll give my service; forward You keep on mind my speech to you;To you I’m greatful!To-day frivolous generation Matures, stirs, already testsTo-day they wish to make each lady To read in Russian.To-morrow we’ll Tanya show...Together for a time they sit.Together go and with him To take the box with fighting thing.Tomb-stone is gloomy, Is lost, and last of feet the printsToo long by ballets I was pressed, By Didle too I am depressed».Too long the silence’s now seeming...Too many neighbours we have had, I cannot count al! them yet.-Triquet gets up; the whole meeting The deepest silence now’s keeping.Triumphant is and gladly shines, Is boring me, makes suffer tormentsTurned off, then yawned and said at once:Two bullets - fitting at this rate - Will quickly settle all his fate.Two neighbours, home have been walking And all about her are talking.Two pines accreted by one root, Beneath are streaming snakes of brookTwo pistols in a row,Two poles glued by halves of floe (Disastrous, trembling little aid)Unbearable is at rout Of mere dinners see a line“Uncle is in bed, His breath again began to harden, To see his nephew he’d be glad”.Uneasily she was expressing Her thoughts in mother tongue expressive;(Unhappily, too much all salted). But. with the help of resin bottled,Unknown in the thick of grass To bees, to moths at no paths.Unlucky Larina was going (To waste the money was afraid)Unlucky victim, Lensky’s gone...Unmoving, lone he’s again.Unmovingly he lay, and queer Was heavy brow’s languid peace.Until his breget sleepless, fine Will strike the bells for him to dine.Unwaited coming any day And each delay to get away.Unwillingly, with sighs of pity: He’s blessed, who knew all their prettyUnwittingly in mirror’s peeping Ashamed to recognize: he’s beaten;Unwittingly may bore by image Of its monotonous naked hues.Unwittingly, you see, the lives Confuse yet me with incarnation;Up marble footsteps he has flown, With hand has mended hair fast.Upholsterers inspected, painted Renewed the old closed sleighs.Upstairs to the highest rate.VVVVVVVVIVIVIVIVIVIVIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIII, IX, XVisantine tubes with amber, treasures Of bronze and porcelain of the past;‘Vladimir Lensky here’s lain, He met his death like man quite holdVladimir answered short, was dry. Then he was mute, his face was wry.Vladimir could have odes written, - To road them Olga never got.Vladimir has the book to close; He takes a pen: his verse has gotWas able any glimpse of sweetness, Of vergin years bias giftnessWas always punished wicked vice, And good was given garlands twice.Was asking Olya him at onceWas brave instead of ‘elle Nina’ To put the ‘belle Tatiana’Was he, the youth, a singer gloomy By fatal treachery confused?Was his emotional speech. Black curls his shoulders could reach.Was impudent and shy; sometimes Could show how tear shines,Was languishing and taciturn, Eloquent ardently in turn;Was lost in thought; to Olga near Revengeful words said no more.Was not astonished at the dawn To see him coining to his hall;Was pedant, judging of the cloth, We’ll call him dandy for the forth.Was seeming new on each occasion, With jokes innocence amazed.Was shaking. Due to Zues he’s being The heir of all relatives in trust.Was she feeling; That he then really was moved,Was talking much of them with pride.Was teaching him with ready jest, With morals never was severe,Was terribly unsatisfied. With every man at any sideWas too afraid, I must confess...Was victim of the wild misleading Of big his passions unrestrained.Way is endless To bed from ballet; half asleepWe’ll be like invalid in hut, Who nears ears to confessionsWe all to learn had little go And anyhow something got,We all were taken by the dreams, As if young life anew begins.We easily betrayed her daily And she was cheating all of us;We haven’t any decent road, Forgotten bridges all decay.We knew the game of passion’s oath; By life were anguished as a rule;We must all time all them caress, Respect and love at heart, not less;We must meanwhileWe sing of their lucky fate And glory!We them remind about us...Well dressed, she’s waiting for her chance, But came to Olga her adorer.,.Well have the music regimental!Well, I remember... has he gone?Well, I saluted classicism! It’s late, but preface has been seen.‘Well, dear me, what is the matter?‘Well, he is killed’,- the neighbour said.Well, his example gives a lesson; But, goodness me, it’s quite distressing‘Well, let us go…’ Prince then nears His own wife (and she them hears),Well, many trifles like the bra.Well, may he all it is by now The fraud of innocent young girl‘Well, no, just the same...Well, she had found charming secret In sense of horror by itself:Well, to present you I shall try’‘Well... I, my nanny… don’t know... For love I’m longing, dear me!Were full of liberty his views And soul. Ardent, somewhat queerWere in the dimmish light of moon Embraced, were weeping at the tomb.Were lilted with passions, lazy fidgets, With dreams of thoughtful soul’s haze.‘What’s happened?’- `Nothing’… - Gets away.What’s he? is real imitation From Moscow a spook or whimWhat’s my Onegin?What’s the end?What’s use?What Grandison? Ah, Grandison!What a whim...What are you: angel guardian trusty Or tempter treacherous and ghastly?‘What big is Tanya!What blunder! I’m a punished ranger.What chatters!.. Blood in her runs cold...What do you want to ask, you say!What does next day for me prepare?What does she see? that at the boards Are sitting spooks of any sorts:What does the kinsfolk mean namely?What foolish, dumpy is this place!What for to grieve?What for would ever viewWhat for yet here has he been?‘What for you early disappeared?’What for you visited all us?What happened, what a strange a dreamtWhat has been moved inside of him, In soul lazy, cool, delightless?What is your name? - He’s looking on, At last he answers: - Aghaphon…What joy: to-day we’ll have to dance!What kind’s he now anyhow?What languid agitation current There is in blood and soul mine!What languid is her gaze guile charming:What more you want?What purpose?What roses, you can be judging,-What said the satirist, remember!What shall I do, I can’t foresee; The same she says to all but sharper:‘What slow-witted you are, nyanya!’ -I’m old, dear friend of heart, My wit is now fading, Tanya: But long ago I was smart: By word of barin’s will I’d rather…-What was the sequence of the meeting?‘What way?What will he choose for his engagement?What would you feel if by your pistol Were killed a friend such good and youngWhat would you feel if still, unmoving Your friend on earth is mute at rest‘What, you are married! didn’t know!What?Whatever are you, dear reader, A friend or not, I’d like with youWhen I to wretchers was assisting Or by the prayer was releasing From stress my soul within me.When clouds in the sky are drifting And stars in turn all get away,When he’s at home, always there By Olga is he kept all day.When him a schoolboy clips the wing, Or like a little hare’s tremblingWhen in the garden’s alley fine The fate us brought together; sadlyWhen sees: a hunter from afar At him is looking so far,When she recovered she is looking: Some inner porch... the bear's gone;When some respiended dear lady To give in quatro me yet tries,When suddenly from village rear He could some droshky’s sounds hear),When to the porch to part all went. At parting all they fussed aboutWhen we for better education Will widen more all needed framesWhen we get that fellow, When we see him, instantlyWhen we shall gather under banner Of stillness, rational and cairn,When well have cooled the passions temper And no more they would alarmWhere’s agitation And honourable aspirationWhere are of stormy love his itchings, The thirst for knowledge and for work,‘Where are, where are withdrawn you now The golden days of life my prime?Where is it better?Where is that sullen gloomy crank, The killer of the bard such feeble?’Where we have never been.Which’s shiny, windy and alive, But selfish, idle, thirsts for thrive.Which are half-funny and half-mournful,Which by the girl-friends had been scribbling From start, from end in any twig.Which came from neighbouring a valley; The peasants come to take a rest,Which doesn’t pity any things, In front of which the life yet isWhich friend of yours with smile of terror In circles decent, so right,Which pressed his spirits all the way And kept his laziness for day, -(Which seemed to be like this and that) Me captivating; and for thatWhich seemed to be more tender, rich; And with the trustful blind entreatyWhich they are calling spleen in English, In Russian known as khandra.Which they in world of London grant To speak like vulgar, (but I can’t...Which was for him from time of childhood Like work and torment, was delightful,While at the moon Tatyana’s looking, By own heart away she’s gone...While he prefered to play a steed. His finger’s frozen a little,While looking after girls, and yet At them keep strictly your lornette!While people yawn in church at prayer, To find a bunch of praying grassWhile she’s by tinsel gown waving In front of her some throng to hail;‘Whith Olga what could happen?Who’s always proud of himself, Of dinner and of wife herself.Who’s he?Who’s helpfully for us adjusting His own deeds and when he prays,Who’s that, which never us betrays?Who’s there, crimson beret wears, With Spanish diplomat she speaks?’,Who’s waiting for her husband sadly Alone daily all her life.Who carefully us can cherish?Who father’s money never trusts To cunning friends, to crufty cards,Who glory, money and the ranks In turn and quietly effected,Who grandly tries but mere rambling To prove the people: eggs is eggs?Who has ideas and is living, He looks at people with disdain,Who hates the moving and the word When you translate him their meaning;Who helps from slander not to perish?Who isn’t bored to be dissembling, To tell the same who never ends?Who killed at duel friend his own, Had lived without aim, this sage,Who left Tambóv without hindrance, He wears glasses, brown wig.Who listens to the same objections And bans the thoughts of wrong reflectionsWho loves you more than I can do Must here write a verse anew.Who made his life not cooled, but useful, With years could his aims abide;‘Who might be thinking... all the time!Who never bores us by his charm?Who pleased her soul and the mind, Much more was touching all her feeling:Who understood it wee a hit, All his attention paid to it.Who was unmodest, who by bristle. An answer, other trifles done,Who wrote comedies with joy; With glory Didla’s crowned there.Whom don’t bore the falseful fears, The prayers, swears, threats and hints,Whom you’d be trusting?Whose author bolter nature’s feeling Than Chateaubriand does himself.’Whose glance, exciting inspiration, With sweet caress gave best rewardWhose grateful, feeling, truthful hand Will pat the fame of old man!Whose knowledge makes his heart all cool Arid him forbids to play the fooltWhy not? It’s pleasant and sonorous; With it, I know, always goesWhy! out of the country thickets...’Will be like Melmoth? patriotic? Cosmopolite? or has he got it?Will get some favourable deal, And afterwards they’ll not endureWill never tremble their hand To beat the slander off a man;Will pass away more fast, they tell, And you will pass the winter well.Will show my renowned face And say: ‘It’s poet of grace!’Will take the twilight of my days.With Kharlikóv Panfíl and children Monsieur Triquet arrived, a wit,With Lea, that’s given him too sweety; With ladies’ flatness; tunes of men;With Olga Tanya; quickly rather Onegin Olga took for dance.With Ozerov all were delighted, Semyonova with him dividedWith Pelagéya Nikolávna The same’s monsieur, her Fine-Mouche, friend,With Russian hammer and the might Return to sleighs the foreign image;With Tanya Lensky; Kharlikóva, The bride of more than ripening age,With age the life is such a badness...’With age to argue is unfitness; The custom’s despot of the males.With all her cooling beauty lone Did like the Russian winter fine:With all my soul being sure That any rubbish, done with zeal,(With all that I began my thought). But when he reached it in a hurry,With all the fame of red high heels, With grand, magestic old wigs.With autumn skies were dayly breathing, Not every day the sun was gleaming,With blood sustained each pure hand... They’d bel.ter part in friendly manner...With brilliant Voronskaya Nina, Of Nova Cleopatra this.With care steps on icy brim And slips, and falls; all fluffy, merryWith charms untroubled she is sweet; For long at table does she sitWith clear soulWith dangerous book alone’s hiking, In it reveals she so strikingWith dear Tanya he was eager Himself to show honest man,With dear muse of mine capricious Let’s hear forest’s noise deliciousWith dreams and heart of old days In her this time again could raise.With education, as you know, We all can shine, and bless it God!With fire in the drooping eyes, Unwittingly she slightly smiles.With fizz by bottle wine be pouring While saying clever pncky word -With flocks of snow; through the crowns Of naked birches from the skyWith fragrant, all grey-haired head An old man said old jokes,With friend a pistol fight to launch, To aim at temple or at haunch.With gloomy brow under hat, Who arms cross-folded has had.With goat’s beard sits a hag; She sees sceleton stiff and proud,With grievous noise became all naked, The tog was falling on the fields,With hard emotion yet tender I am enjoyed by breath such gentleWith heavenly her pride she’s touching The earth when conies to take a rest:With her he’s ever in her chamber Until the daylight turns more fainter;With her, my lips will find anew Petrarka’s language ‘I love you’ .With him be keeping, and the sledge To park in field not far from hedge.With him my cousin first Buyánov, All fuzzy, wears peaky cap,With him was always on the bends: His enemies as well as friendsWith his malicious evil wit, Who boils in action for a bit.With his she-wolf, in hunger bold, A wolf is coming to the way;With joy he knew: for wedding carriage Two weeks ahead was fixed above.With jug young woman goes fast, By feet she crushes snow-dust.With kin to meetWith love friends’ notions I’d rateWith lyre, while abroad residing, In Goethe’s, Shiner’s places hiking,With many senses all this fuss, Which is antique for all of us.With medal for Ochakov playing, Intended Olga for my wifeWith might and main he’ll you defend With love of kinsman, not of friend!With mill Zaretsky has been dealing: Mill-stones he investigates.With more bow can be meeting, Sometimes at all him isn’t seeing;With my request immodest, gladless I’d trouble you for helping me:With narrow and long wine-glasses, Reminding slander waist of yours,With one of feet the floor she’s touching, With other slowly she wheels,With own heavy hall, his dear; Gvozdín, Buyánov, PetushkóvWith own wife that’s very portly Came stout Pustyakov at last;With passion and the wit to gain, For sudden tenderness to wait,With pride for recent fame can glow: Napoleon waited but in vainWith ranks of books his shelf fulfilling, For long he eagerly was reading,With reason I remembered them.With scornful bitter contemplation Your proud look will me refuse!With secret grief I read this matter, While reading cannot put aside.With short a word or with a cross, With question sign and so forth.With talks about novel hazy; With symbol, making sisters crazy;With tender soul, clear sense Him gave attractive handsome face,With the berries laughingly, Don’t hear secretlyWith thirst of soul all them held; And she discovered other world.With threat Onegin raised his hand And wildly with his eyes is shining;With throng by passions deeply fusing, I brought my playful muse to fitWith time I’d smooth and then might be I’d find a friend to suit my soul, Would be a loyal wife on whole, And virtuous mother I would be.With unaccountable charms He sees his Olga in his arms...With unexpected consolation Unwittingly some thought of that:With utterly regretful soul, On granit leaning, straight. upright,With war; with magazine’s white lie; With snow and with own wife,With waves I wished myself somehow To touch her dear feet by mouth.With what a lively fascination Deludes herself with all deceits!With which to start?With whom we all to sleep had gone; - For tender girl, the dreamer hearty,With wreath, ashamed, his hand in hand, With drooping head, as if yet lone,With yawn I’ll cover disrespect And shall of bygone recollect?With you I now tears shed;With youthful years gets away, And my Zaretsky, I would say,Without answer.Without breath, with timid feeling Tatyana listened then to him.Without fail you’ll find them here: Two hearts, the blooms, the torch’s rays;Without gold can revive While simple product is its richness:Without jokes By bore and rhyme depressed, all dayWithout me his time will come, But now let him live in calmWithout mincing style was shining, But interrupted was meanwhileWithout prejudice considers The others oils but us as ones.Without purpose or a spite Would not repeat for days in error;Without service, wife or deed, By something to engage unfit.Without them Onegm’s pictured.Would bore, eat, drink, be ill, he fat, At last in own bed idealWould come together at week-ends, Unceremonious dear friends,Would come, she innocently grieves, Her languid eyes to moon she raises;XXXXXXXX U1XIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIII, XIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXLXLXLXLXLXLXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIII, XLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIXXLIXXLIXXLIXXLUIIIXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVI1XLVIIXLVIIXLVIIXLVIIIXLVIIIXLVIIIXVXVXVXVXVXVXVXV, XVI, XVIIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX IXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIXXXXIXXXXIXXXXIX, XLXXXIX, XL, XLI ………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..XXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVI, XXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIXXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIII, XXX1XXXXVIII, XXXIXXXXYXXYIIXYIIXYIIXYIIIYIII- Yes and no yet.Yes! just indifferent oblivion Behind the grave for all us waits.Yes, I shall come, I’ll come!’ - beforeYes, It is he...Yet Cupids, devils and the serpents Make noise and hop in front of pit;Yet being child, at any year Tatyana didn’t play with doll;Yet being child, in children’s throng To play and jump had none desire,Yet child, by Olga fascinated, Ignorant yet of hearty pains,Yet does it whirl the world and us:Yet limpid is the near woodYet long ago did I look For words in Academic Book.Yet might be less fulfilled for while By foreign words without pressing,Yet outside, as well’s inside, The lanterns everywhere shine;Yet some of weary men-servants At entrance on fur-coals sleep;Yet someone hisses, feet are stamping, Some blow nose, cough, are clapping;Yet speaks of Him; and she avoids The sounds of the tender voiceYet, being chilled, are striking horses, Annoyed by harness; near lightYou’d better hurry up away. The shepherd at the break of dayYou’ll fall in love once more and find… You learn to rule yourself: I fearYou’ll find some vowes to the dear To love her until dying days.You’ll hardly meet to-day a maiden With Russian magazine in hand.You’ll perish, but before you go, You try in dazzling pretty hopeYou’ll see: they all become the boshYou all indifferent, lucky, prone Of Levshin school the pupils, fans,You all my slipshod stanzas here: For recollections restless dear;You all, whom decorated guickly Tolstoy with brush such wondrous, sweatily,You alone Among anxieties in stillYou are guessing To know; you are quite exact:You are in heat.- - But I’m not ill Well... nanny, I’m in love, I feel.., - God bless you now, dear daughter! -You are like comrade, 1 believe, To help are ready always gently,You are, my Moscow, beloved of Russia daughter, and where can we find some other of the kind..You came to me when I was sleeping, Unseen you were to me beloved,You came two times, but then of self You don’t make them yet remindingYou didn’t like me; What has happened, That after me you now are?You don’t let be cooled my soul, Become embittered, hardened, dry,You don’t want? - check up your cost, Or grudge, or drink, and thus the eveningYou first of alt must love yourself, My dear venerable reader!You get along the Neva’s route, Newborn by me the work of fancy;You give a pen and paper, dear, I’ll stay in bed; make table near;You had, I saw, some little pity, Some small respect to age, at least...You hear voice of little source, You see grave-stone small and coarceYou help my doubts to resolve:You leave your city big, audacious, In which the winter’s mirth you’d had.You let me now my ideas To tell you all this very day.You lie, young hard, in peace all age!’You listen but without anger: With time young girl will change her temper,You listen to my grievous call:You make my sleepy heart revive, To my good nook more often dive.You may become a man of business And think of beauty of the nails.You must remember that day time,You never stamped your small foot-prints. You liked smooth carperts of some printsYou now bless long years’ workYou now come to rooms, the inner...‘You now meet...’ - And both coolly, The enemies, not aiming yet,You poets, are queer!’ -Good bye, Onegin, time has gone.‘You see, Tatyana’s not a child,’ The old woman’s voice is mild,-You see, by skies its predestined:You see, your Larina is plain, But very dear old soul;‘You send your grandchild stilly there To give this note to... to my...You sigh not speaking of your will: When will the devil come for him!’You take my set of florid rhymes- You tell me, nanny,‘You tell me, prince, if don’t mind,‘You tell of those Your old times... I’ve boring tide..’You tell, of them which is Tatyana?’ -That girl, which’s always so sad;You write the odes, gentlemen,You, Moscow, I thought of you!You, constant vivid job, could harden My slender force, to me could giveYou, country Priams, should be ready; And you, each sensitive a lady:You, dreams, my dreams, where is your pleasure And rhyme to it: my youth, my treasure ?‘You, nanny, let me stay forlone.Young ladies on the floor all glide But yet in towns, countrysideYoung triumphant peasant On wooden sledge renews the way.Your glance made languish me far love, Your voice was touching all my feeling For long... But that was not a dreamt You came, at once I got to know: Inflamed and heated I was whole.Your pricks of swear, you must know, Your strict and cool severe chatYour tears, if you will be crying, Would never touch my gloomy heart,Zarétsky, brawler; they believe: Of gambling gang he was the chief,Zaretsky’s bitten both lips; To Lensky Eugene then appeals:Zaretsky cautiously could layZaretsky thirty second step Has measured with exactness caredZaretsky to behave refuses: ‘But where is the second yours?’Zaretsky was explains refusing; To stay for long he didn’t want:Zhizhi, my soul’s crystal first, The subject of naive my passes,Zhookovsky‘...can’t sleep, it’s stuffy, you unclose The window and sit beside...’is going, and when she’s trying To turn aside... is coming up-it’s right, but may be you will show The pipe, the dagger and the man;---------------------------------------------
………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .His geese and ducks tie breeds for fee And teaches children ABC.THE ENDCHAPTER THREECHAPTER ONECHAPTER FIVEXVIIXLVIIXLUIIIXIXIIIXVIIXVIXLIIIXLVIXVIIIXXVIXXVIILVIIIXLIXVIIIIIIIIXV, XVI, XVIIXXIIXVIIIXLIIILVIIXXIIIVIIXXVIIIIIIXXXVIIXIIXXIIIXLIXXXIIIXLIIXXXVIXLIIXXIIXXXVI, XXXVIIXXXVIXVIIIXLIIIXIIXIIIXIIXXXIIIXLIXXXVIIXLIXXIIXIVIXIIIXIIIXXXIIXXVIIIXLVIXXVIIIIXXXIIIXLIIIXLIIXVIIXVIIXXILIXXIIXXIXIIIIIXXVIIIXXIIXXXVIIIBut IXXXIXXXIIXXIXVIXYIIIVIXXXIXIIIVIIXXXVIIIXIIVIIIXIVIIIXXXIILIIIVIXVIIIXXIXXXIIILIXXXVIIXXIIIIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXIXXIIIXXXIIIXXIIXVIXXXVIXVIXXXIXIIVIXXXIXVIIIVIIIXXXVIIXXXIIIIIXVIXIXLVIXXXIXYIIIXLIIVIXXXVIIIXLIXXVIIIXXVIXLVIXXXVIVIIXXXIXXXVIXXXIIXXVIIIXLIIXLIIIXIIIXLVIIIXXVIIIVIIXXXIXIIIILIIIIIIILIIXXIIIXXIIIXXVIIIIVIXXXIIIVIIXXIVIIIXLVIIIXIIIXIIXXVIXXXIIIXLIIIVIIIXIVIIXXXIIXLVIIIXXXVIXVIXLVIIXXVIIIXXXIIIII, II, III, IV, V, VI, VIILVIXXVILIILIIIXXVIIXIXIIXYIIIIIIXXILIXXXIIXXXVIXXXVIIXXIIIXVIIXLIIVIIXXIIXXXIXXVIIXXVIYIIIXXYIIXXXIIXIVIIXXIIIXXVIIXXXIIIXVIIIIXX IXLVIVIIIXXVIIXXVIXLVIIIXXIIXXVIIXXIXXXIX, XL, XLI ………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..XLVI1XLLXLLXLXLXLLXLLXXXIX, XLCHAPTER SEVENCHAPTER TWOCHAPTER FOURCHAPTER EIGHTX U1XXXIVXLIVXLVXVXIVXXXVXIII, XIVXXXIVXXXVXXIVIVXXIVVXIVXXXIVLIVXXXVLVXXXVXIVVIVXXXIVXXVXXIVVXLVXLIII, XLIVXXVLVXXVXLIVXXVXXVXXXIVXXVXXXIVLIVXLIVVIVXIVXLVIVVXXVIVVXLVXLIVXLVXLVXVXIVXVIVXXIVXVXXIVXXIVXIVXXXVXVVXVIVXXXVXVXLIVXXIVXXXIVXXXVXXXIVXXVXXXXXLIXXXXIXIXXXXVIII, XXXIXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXLXIXXIXXXIXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXXXIXXLIXXIXXXXXXIXXXIXXXXXXXXXVIII, XXX1XIXCHAPTER SIXXXXIXXXIXXIXVIII, IX, XXLIXXIXXIXXXXXXXIXXIXIXXXXXXXXIXLIXIXXXIXXXXIXXXIXXXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIXXLIXXXIXXXXYWas brave instead of ‘elle Nina’ To put the ‘belle Tatiana’Eugene’s letter to TatyanaPerhaps, you would agree, that is By marble charms unable NinaIt was because of cousin dear: In Moscow princess AlinaOh, don’t know dreadful dreams You, my young Svetlana‘Pachette!’- Alina!‘Ah, Tanya!O Russia!‘What big is Tanya!In Africa; at any step To sigh about mirky Russia,Less influence on lady’s head; It was, my friends, Martyn Zadeka,By hard from big Tambóv’s engaged; Buyhánov whirls with Pustyakóva,Him call to sit to samovar, And Doonya quickly gives him tea,And I, while thinking of Swetlana,The feather beds, the cocks in cages, The basins, pots, et cetera,Well, many trifles like the bra.Etcetera.Which they are calling spleen in English, In Russian known as khandra.Is whitening on Lukérya Lvovna, The same yet lies Lytibóv Petróvna.At once was frightened my Tatyana...Were in the dimmish light of moon Embraced, were weeping at the tomb.But in a while the guests from suburb Are making up a common hubbub:Him nothing there can alarm, The world for him is shut dud dumb?Too long by ballets I was pressed, By Didle too I am depressed».“Uncle is in bed, His breath again began to harden, To see his nephew he’d be glad”.Enough he fooled the whole world? At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated. Enough he fooled the whole world…Prepared for the sake of money To sighs, to boredom and to fraudMore brave than sound man, a grand His message wants to send: weak handOn branches of the pine permissive Sometimes an early morning windHe’s blessed, who feast of life was leaving In time, not drinking to the endTo have a talk with her he triedTatyana hardly sighs, the man Addresses her with verse in handTo bring her features clear, plain, Simplicity of country maidExtinguished ash will not be heating, Without tears I am sadOr not for long her heart was shatteredAt once Anisya then appeared; Through porch the way was quickly clearedThat you had come, my dear vision In darkness came for head of bedTo have some quick and restless fancy? Because her will and wit has hadAnd what insidiousness you show, When you amuse a man half deadYet limpid is the near woodTo whom your hearts were dedicating,- In written Russian they were badBut now - God! - is cooling bloodSome string of love in her appeared, In love affairs she was gearedThe movings, voice, the figure fine, All Olga has... but you can findOr dismal eye will never findCan daily headlong ride full speed; When she alone in the fieldOf Moscow young graces goodTo him among the lines all printed His eyes in spirit always hinted‘Vladimir Lensky here’s lain, He met his death like man quite holdShe now from the hill comes down, And hardly breathing looks aroundSome merry magpies Tanya sees, All mountains were smoothly coveredShe’s troubled by the jealous trend: As if some cold foe’s handHe tried, but of the work persistent He felt yet sickness. Nothing goodTo get him up she isn’t asking, Not taking eyes off all his headAnd may be tracks of secret fear Of own husband and of world’Whose glance, exciting inspiration, With sweet caress gave best rewardTo me true compass now lendHe isn’t more… The youngling bardIn village cuckold but good, In wadded overall with hoodThe sleigh has stopped; to auntie old, Consumptive now, to beholdAnd rent the ear-rings of gold; Then brittle snows fastly holdNot madrigals my Lensky’s writing In Olga’s album, and indeedAppolo’s children took it sacred; For Albion proud lyre ratedHe was afraid of being answeredAs sign of lust for future being The master of her home, childLet it be so: you have hadNor Scott, nor Byron, nor Seneka; The Lady’s Fashion Journal hadLet’s readAt boring stage some known actor, And, turning to unknown worldAt waters shining in the still, A muse had come to me, it filledThat hermit idle and despondent Yet recently in winter livedNot long ago they like brothers Divided meals, ideas, floodNot grasping ways to understandCritic strictly Demands from us: be getting ridThe chief of rakes, a tribune-tippler. — Hut now simply good the headFor long Onegin couldn't bear That tragical and nervous moodHe’s blessed, who with his love combinedEach topic’s argued at the meetings: To meditate they were in moodAnd I confess: from them I fled: It seemed with horror I had readInheritage, he had by then, Not seeing loss in all, he wastedFor long by fate of Lensky, striking, Unwittingly her soul’s filledThat under gale, en waves in boat All over the sea crossroadTo ask you: leave, do not be funny. You know, in your heart I findIt Tanya knew of near duel, At least the day before had heardCan it he real anyhow Without elegical deedSome round dance away disperses: Behind the river smoked, blazedWith Ozerov all were delighted, Semyonova with him dividedThe caravan of crying geese For south fleeted. And unwaitedZaretsky thirty second step Has measured with exactness caredThank God, more clearly - she’s feeling The man, for whom to sigh she hadIts time for dinner, Guests have hadSuch custom’s known everywhere: To marry daughters every triedAnd she has hadBy many signs she’s always worried, In secret way all objects hurriedShe deathly pale was looking round And all her face was greatly sadAnd no nonsense in the world Or epigram with brutal wordOf praised grandfather’s old age: The Lovelace fame is now rottenedThey’d better laugh before they hadBy lordly Byron portrait bright, By doll cast-iron and diminishedEach day was shorter at the noon, The secret canopy of woodTatyana heard with indignation All those gossips, but she hadThat uhlan’s loved by all her soul… At altar now does she standHe is seeking New ways. The second day, the thirdThe fixing time; the poor bard In silence drops his pistol hardAnd you, my reader dear, gracious, In your borouch from other landWith fizz by bottle wine be pouring While saying clever pncky word -And by degrees but is beginning Tatyana him to comprehend -‘Ah, my Lord!’,Ah, who would not her silent feelings At this quick moment have read!Ah, many were by fate denied!But none she had!But how greatly Tanya’s altered!Last evening frightful words I’d heard; Thank God!My dear early little bird!With education, as you know, We all can shine, and bless it God!He’s always frowned, taciturn, He’s chilly, jealous, angry turned!Has found end untimely hard!In cold heart is kindling blood... Again the grief, of love the flood!My muse in ethics well embodied!Oh, you, the husbands so honoured!But withered!Indeed, for long should have the end!They’ve made me marry other man; And I’ll be true to him till end!With might and main he’ll you defend With love of kinsman, not of friend!The enmity’s afraid in world Of eyes derisive, scornful word!She’s trembling in the heat of fever,	 For him she waits and doesn’t hear That in the garden maidens sing, While they are gathering, not seen, In bushes berries: they were given To sing strict order (while they job To make them banns not to rob As berries never could be eaten: In country they invented then The way the banns to defend!),He’s killed!..To loose his colour he’s beginning: She doesn’t see or she’s too hard!?Two poles glued by halves of floe (Disastrous, trembling little aid)Unlucky Larina was going (To waste the money was afraid)He gave his hard; in all her grievance (As they would say, it was unwitnessed)With goat’s beard sits a hag; She sees sceleton stiff and proud,I’ll simply say without fevers: If previous idol I could find,Her belt of silk she is removing, Undressed is going to bed,Her role how firmly played,The wiser I should get each day: My deeds and rhymes to have corrected,Malvina’s works but separated For several roubles he abated,In it immersed, he there quite The whole world again denied,Or that’s because all my disgrace Would eyes attract to you, belated,By liars secretly prepared, By worldly mob in chorus favoured,On sledge the corpse, all icy, lone, He’s taking home dreadful hoard,The love; who cooled it with divorcement, By scandal enmity could strand,But anyway the friend of mine To be light-hearted had been fated,Despite her soul, such embarrassed, Despite her passions being raised,In languish of the heart remorses He pressed his pistol in his hand,The tea’s been brought; the quiet maidens Are taking saucers into hand,(Unhappily, too much all salted). But. with the help of resin bottled,The killer of his brother-bard; The bard is dead... and that is hard,At first his language me confused,By habits of the life he’s pampered, By somebody he was well tempered,But Eugene’s fate for him was fair: At first by Madame he was cared,His life’s monotonous and is mixed, The same for many days is fixed,To look at life like at the rite, And follow the decent crowd,By vernal rays all driven now From hills the snows, turned to mud,The frosty dust did not inhale, With early snow, as it happened,All servant maidens in the yard To guess the fortune were accustomed,But when her thanks for termination To Eugene came, tier languid mood,At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated,All given up in summer heat. To count days he simply hated,Of elegy’s bad garland quickly; To all the rhymers, friends indeed,She’s writing, on the table leaning, And always Eugene’s kept in mind,Long since the girl began to languish, Could burn in bliss, in dismal mood,But sequels of the sudden meeting To-day, my dear reader-friend,Sad and cold,Forgive me, isn’t it too hard?’ -For me it’s not - ‘But dear bard,Feocrite, Gomer were reproved, Yet Adam Smith was well approved,From Eugene differ I my image, To note this I always trend,She’s wild and sad, is daily silent. Like forest calf, she’s often frightened,In many trends he’d change his habit: Would part with muses, would be married,Half-aireal and resplended, To magic bow all attended,He speeds her up the forest road; Through trees is seen a dwelling old,It’s nice by epigram audacious To make erroneous foe mad,Some herds were walking in the scene, By garden canopies were ended,That their friendship never ends; By unreflected rays effected,Return him life by jealous flame Or otherwise the male offended,Of years young but whithered hard,Who glory, money and the ranks In turn and quietly effected,His house stood in place selected, From winds by mountains protected,Was she feeling; That he then really was moved,By post-chase he headlong went, Was yawning sweetly before hand,The powder, by grey parts handed, On shelf is falling; an indented,She has been shuddered, but is mute, She eyes Onegin as some good,But suddenly could part from it, As I from my Onegin did,To read Apuleius I was ardent, But Cicero I didn’t read,Her chest is high, her cheeks are covered By instant flame, they quickly flowered,Around Tanya ladies crowd,With Pelagéya Nikolávna The same’s monsieur, her Fine-Mouche, friend,He was mistaken: sleeping fair — Onegin then for world was dead,That year pretty autumn weather Too long was staying on in yard,For evening whist who’s coming briskly, Sits down, plays not very hard,Sometimes he dares like in game, By smile of Olga animated,My Eugene is in front of home. Hall porter shadfly he bypassed,Among the songs in books decrepit Somewhere issued was that lilt; Triquet with poet’s keen wit For world from dust that rhyme extracted,Like great Chadayev, Eugene dear Of jealousy reproach feared,In his first youth he was untrained,Some wines to me are not ajusted, Remind a lady-lover rusted,By one mistrustful old man; Him stately cuckold admitted,‘You tell me, prince, if don’t mind,But wretched is, who’s all foreseeing, Who never felt some ache of head,But, being wife, she willy-nilly Yet sighed for man of other kind,He would have known life quite real, At fourty gout would have had,His father didn’t understand Arid put in pledge the whole land,I know, you were sent by goodness, You’ll be my guard until the end,You came to me when I was sleeping, Unseen you were to me beloved,‘Of whom your own lyre sighs?’ By you I’m often briskly questioned, -‘You see, Tatyana’s not a child,’ The old woman’s voice is mild,-Forgotten features can remind.As if by greenish down covered.The ashes patriarchal honoured.She enters a deserted yard.The barks, the smacks of kissing maids, The crush, the laugh, the noise are loud.All fashioned model of the creature Who’s dressed, undressed, anew redressed.At last it stopped.He’s puffing, he is remonstrating, He swore to devil Lensky’s head For sufferings, he here had.She liked the books of Richardson Yet no because them all she read.Without them Onegm’s pictured.To come to tables hand in hand.May I just see the banns home? Them Tanya asked.Some frame and lace for working fit, In silk embroider never did.Of course, it would be so bold, Describing is what I must hold.It was the art of tender passion, By Nazon brightly glorified.At the ideal, fashioned word, A stilly dream my Lensky had.Of enemy from pistol parried.And girls, at banks Salgirian captured.In winter darkness of the night Was captivating heart and mind.Let’s listen, yet without labour, To their talking, short indeed.By turbid brooks have run all down To meadows, all under flood.Was victim of the wild misleading Of big his passions unrestrained.His soul’s warmed with inspiration By lady’s greetings, friendly kind.Was seeming new on each occasion, With jokes innocence amazed.In hearty letter, as its sender, He was slipshod.And you, well known dear wood, And charming skies of neighbourhood.The love, the plants, the void, the village, The fields! to you I’m staunch a friend.All that I gladlessly survived.To object of his love and hymns, To beauty dear, nicely languid.‘Well, he is killed’,- the neighbour said.For district mothers pleasant image - The regimental chief arrived.To hostess a lady’s heading, Some plump grand general’s behind.By chance I met you long ago. A spark of tenderness you showed.Onegin my To sleep at home lone flied.My poor Tanya sits, can’t sleep, And looks into the darkling field.The old man had no time To read the books of other kind.Of dreadful fancy all the meanings Tatyana wants to find the end.My father gave consent to wed.Across a glade, all under snow Around which all’s dark and sad.Hurra! we all have reached the land.They say, they’d got For that the best in world reward.At window he flies was killing And daily house-keeper cursed.The girls are jumping all around.My poor Lensky with his heart For such a life was born, young bard.But that will do; adieu is [node: For madness tribute you have paid.But you are tortured by the road.Her thought is hiking everywhere, Forgotten are the bail, the world.‘But how did you marry, nanny?’ -It was by wish of God.Enough in common way with him We wandered in the world.You’ll hardly meet to-day a maiden With Russian magazine in hand.Stood Eugene, thoughtful, quite alone, As poet himself described.Shortly each from other Were drifted they by thirst of blood.To meet the scholar world’s desire I could describe, you’d be amazed.The winter had been longed by nature, In January it snowed hard.The shades of night are now rare And Vesper’s met by cock ahead.His conscience Lensky was revealing, His own soul criticized.Of droshky light, remote noise From Million street was heard.Some noise by beetle’s raised.It now; but ‘Bordeaux’ prudent To-day to others nave prefered.They met each other, riding horse, And then became unseparated.On them attentive eyes are fixing By will and passion of the maid.Her Russian was yet very bad As Russian books she never read.He calmly sleeps in bed, retired From pastimes, flourishing big child.Meanwhile his eyes off her can’t tear Some general important, grand.Behind a stump Guillot quite scared.Ah, feet, in vain I was affected.Affected native Russian banns, And all the neighbours were amused.His nose, shoulders could raise The general, by her amazed.Buyánov courted: was refused.Could my Onegin now find.Tell again, You see, I’m now muddle-headed.Behind the grave my Lensky poor To deaf eternity was used.And stilly neared me in calmness. I think its you with love and brightness Could whisper full of hopes word.But they would madden it too hard.You leave your city big, audacious, In which the winter’s mirth you’d had.Could catch a neighbour, who by chance Came in - by tragedy at once Him entertained.In single image they confused, In one Onegin all were fused.At dawn who never knows yet The evening where will he spend.Past clans; the charming dreams of love, Antique moralities beloved.In weep my plait was then undid, With songs to altar us could lead.At the games of maidenhood.In hope that by future friend Of me some sound will be said.In tears women have embraced And exclamations have been raised.The time was coming, dull and hard: November stood in front of yard.And here she, exhausted, sad In tears bad a cough has had.Of feelings quickly came to mind, But now weakly lag behind.She looks, and all her own heart More often’s heating and more hard.With gloomy brow under hat, Who arms cross-folded has had.And all around dreams in still, With light of moon its all fulfilled.With thirst of soul all them held; And she discovered other world.Such subject’s worthy of your mind: More gentle never you will find.And several days she after that Had been entroubled, deeply sad.Forgive me, but my love is deep To Tanya’s dear heart indeed.Then took the friends for last his track Arid each of them the pistol had.His wife herself such feeling had: From Richardson to be quite mad.To doctors he is being sent. The doctors him to waters send.By us the habits have been got Instead of happiness from God.They bless the harmful ruts of land And ditches of the fatherland.Are wetting iron hard curb-bit, Like shaft they gallop with all speed.Some lively rots in long a tale Or hearty letters of young maid.His heart, Vladimir qickly penned At tomb a madrigal by hand.He ceased to like (with them was led) Invectives, sables and the lead.The shining skies are now blued.Of tyrant you didn’t fear, But now he your fate has had.I love you, but with love of brother And may be tenderer indeed.Returned; without extra word always ready - shortly said.‘Ah, will you do a favour, nanny?’ -All right, my dear, you command.-Of nightly grief I see none track, Your face is blushing poppy-red.-‘Ah, father my! the profit’s worsened..’.You are, my Moscow, beloved of Russia daughter, and where can we find some other of the kind..A youth unmoving lies on it; He hears voices: ‘Well, he’s killed...’My poor mind...Does not remove from lips his gasping Her quite insensible small hand...A book at mornings here read...And we adored, like in a dream, Some song of horn and man, such bold...Bewildered and astonished hard...Decayed...What chatters!.. Blood in her runs cold...The crowd now all is waving, A whisper through the hall has flied...But something more us separated...For pranks or weakness of the dear... (That’s all he knew in own world...)And exclamations at the board:Report for him was so sudden From steward:Of old age triumphant customs At home were supported hard:At once behind the door awakens The sound of bassoon from band:But now doubts all are solved:They don’t cost yet neither sense, Nor any songs, by them inspired:The great prosperity lo waste - To have at home he intended:Astonished being and amazed, - As if by nothing she was harassed:Him scenting, horses on the road All snort, and travellers quickly hold:You see, by skies its predestined:Its window is brightly shining, Inside much noise and fuss they’ve had;Or in the garden hand in hand They walk at morning so grand;All’s good: for vigil and for sleep Will come the hour well geared;At his Penates, quite permissive Vladimir honoured all, who died;In Tanya’s, Olga’s rooms all maidens Already happy dreams have had;He thought she would be much confused, By his arrival much abused;In grief of love Tatyana goes To their garden, she is sad;Of course, he thinks, ‘I could be scornful To alt his funny, lying word;Her head; is seeming to be ready For deep a faint, this being mild;In flame by wit to cool each minute The agitation in the blood;For quiet leisure after work; For lively pictures, salted word;Embarrassment, her being tired Arosed pity, he’s admired;On third day, looking all around, He saw nor copse, nor hill, nor ground;My life has been a pawn but fruitless Of meeting with my dear friend;First time indeed my muse just now To worldly rout I can lead;And old barin room this had;Alas! my Eugene, no doubts, With Tanya is in love like child;Implacable at their ages, Inscrutable for all my mind;And not because the Grandison To Lovelace was by her prefered;The way is short, from dear neighbour They go home fast, at speed;The hall is full of crowd; The music’s weary of sound;With you I now tears shed;You tell, of them which is Tatyana?’ -That girl, which’s always so sad;The old woman was admired By that advice, such simple, good;And gaze attentive of her maidens; She daily greatly is depressed;Are drying valleys many-coloured;Some old ladies had been seated, All capped, with roses, looked wicked;To be the rest of year free Congratulations are accustomed;Of State the envoy always spoke About needs, the State had had;One’s horned, with muzzle of a hound; Another has of cock the head;And gave this person all the beauty, And made him wrongly persecuted;But suddenly her sister’s coming, Then Lensky comes; the light has flashed;‘And whom your lovely verse adored?’‘What for you early disappeared?’Is not it so, friend?I write to you - what more or other To add to all by this is said?By whom was tenderness inspired? - With words neglectness who’s admired?Or will he be a lad good natured Like you and I, like all the world?My soul, long ago dead, And all for it seems dark ahead?Is really the secret’s found?Was he, the youth, a singer gloomy By fatal treachery confused?I loved you, I for love had hunger, But what in all your heart could find?But who is that, in throng selected, Is standing mute and unaffected?And what for is can now lurid?And how, with your heart and mind, To he the slave of sense, not kind?What’s the end?All point at her, such young and fine, And all they cry: ‘It’s mine! Its mine’He can’t give happiness at large’.Forgive me’.And there… -Can share stillness of pastimes; Long liveSome kind of trouble was him teasing: For change of places secret cueI like the friendly idle speakings And friendly howl of sweet wineAt first they came to him for visit But as he usually was goneBut dear friends, it all is useless: If I in future won’t beIn brackets to the point I’d note: In all my verses, by my rhymeEach man has enemies, but yet From friends defend us God a littleShe waited, looked and anyhow She said: well, yes! it must be HeYou, constant vivid job, could harden My slender force, to me could giveMy mother in her bitter tears Implored to yield; for Tanya hereBut I my fruits of dreams am reading, And my harmonious ventured verseAt home had to work a lot; And he went out; but my EugeneThe night has many stars, all charming; The brightest one at heaven’s blueMy age inclines for strict a prose, Against light rhymes my age aroseMeanwhile we all. of Hymen foes, In home life yet see but oneYet speaks of Him; and she avoids The sounds of the tender voiceWith love friends’ notions I’d rateSome darkling blessing to invite To know better bliss of lifeI can your frankness estimate, It made my feelings agitateThe honoured castle was erected Like all such castles: it was fineBut after first cordial greeting Zaretsky’s silent for a whileEnrolled dandies show here The impudence and fine gilletteWith medal for Ochakov playing, Intended Olga for my wifeAnd give you all that 1 could scribbleIn which for winter had a place. Storm windows, the fire-placeMeanwhileThey all can find her somewhat queer Provincial and affected creatureFor world has done yet nothing titling, To grow male yet hadn’t timeHer own house they have come; The door wide open was doneWithout mincing style was shining, But interrupted was meanwhileAnd how often muse my tender Delighted silent route for meAnd all to her it seems quite wealthy, Revives her languid soul’s rateAnd now, free from humid stopper, Each bottle bangs and all the wineWe must meanwhileBut my fateThe boston, gossips were in vain, Or dear looks or sighs - all thoseThrough kitchen-garden they went home; They came together; no oneHis misty, foggy gazeThe secrets of the bed of marriage, The garlands of the sweetest loveMy friends, on bard you’d have a pity: Of hopes rain-bowed at primeDirects it constantly, each minute At her, who by her own image’He’s ignoramus’, said the neighbours, ’He is free-thinker, drinks red wineMeanwhile they most be not a mock, But honourable..!’ - l could hereIt may be, with itself has carried Some sacred secret; evil choiceBut wave and stone, The ice and flame, the verse and proseThey argue louder; he’s getting Some long a knife; in short a whileWas terribly unsatisfied. With every man at any sideAt boring aunt’s my Tanya meeting Once Vyasemisky in his good ageCan live like real wise a ma7i: Like that Horatius with cabbageYes, I shall come, I’ll come!’ - beforeAnd heated by the pure passion This agitated person badeBut let it go: at this rate To strive against myself aloneAt first I wished to keep it secret; Believe me: never of my shame You’d guess, as I would well behaveAnd hostile shore, I shall be rushing To come to midday desert steppeOf ‘Clicquot widow’ or ‘Moet` Some blessed and fine the dry white wineSome madridgal of old days, And presses hand; at once her faceYou hear voice of little source, You see grave-stone small and coarceOf love mad sufferings she’s feeling . Without ceasing for a whileBecause uncautious ardent soul Annoys, ridicules, as a wholeMy memory is dark.., I’m granny... And much forgot... of life the lineBut like a house all deserted It’s dark and still, and not by chanceThen let the poet enraged To play the fool: at his teenageCould not repeat, yet being shameless, That I could scribble own faceAbout feasts, enormous, fine, About meals and corks I wroteTo all he seems to be some strange; In front of him the faces rangeThe autumn golden is coming, The nature’s now trembling, paleWill get some favourable deal, And afterwards they’ll not endureYoung ladies on the floor all glide But yet in towns, countrysideBut he is stubborn: to renounce Unfit, yet hopes, hustles; bounceBesides, opinions of the husband By very good and virtuous wifeWas asking Olya him at onceIncautious, likely, I was, but me could supplicateAmong Moldavian dismal thickets She visited marquees in peaceThe tears of the people’s awe. Katenin there could restoreShe sees: the room is light again, Through window’s a frosty paneAh, he could love; they don’t now Have anything like real loveBut such amusements, yet important, Are worthy of an old apeWith hard emotion yet tender I am enjoyed by breath such gentlePerhaps I’ll grieve if in a whileHe so used to live in visions That he could go mad quite freeIn winter, when the night’s weak shadeTo Petushkóv she never goes; Pykhtín, the hussar, toed to fuseBy nothing bound, I’m a stranger: I thought: the freedom, peace for meAgainst Tatyana in a row They sit. Of morning moon more paleYou’ll perish, but before you go, You try in dazzling pretty hopeI dread: in my submissive prayers You’ll see by strict, severe gazeGod knows, whom by words you dart; Of elegies the precious codeAnd I’ll remind the speech of passion, The words of longing, wistful loveAll things by Paris craft invented To help the idle hungry tasteBut none a thought for days is flashing; At neither random nor by chanceThe secret drives in sledge rehearse; But I am ready to endureThe talks are saved for time much better: The mouths chew, From every sideHe’ll fascinate you, I am sure, By picturing in flaming verseAt Kharitónya’s in the alley In front of house at the gateAnd far niente is my law.	 I wake at mornings to adoreI could defineBetween affairs and the leisure She found out with a pleasureOn leave the gussars hasten hereThey now play the eighth of roberts, Of whist the braves; eight times in lineAway from Eugene’s lips; morose, He’s awkward, hardly has he forceAll lots that time became alike; And then I married, I would likeTo judgings by the world severeOne vision always, everywhere, The rime desire comes to dareUnbearable is at rout Of mere dinners see a lineSometimes could keep his answer dark; Sometimes a quarrel could enableIn it, sometimes, on rare sundays At window, in glasses, heHe’s languished by the hits rebuffing, Attentive in the still and noise(Not speaking of the verses frames). The education can’t adhereAnd he with pleasure long ago Was meeting him; that’s why at borneIt’s true; to you I had boon listening, In stillness spoke. you to me‘In all the world its most badly To see in family the wifeAs now not at any time He could bear-steaks and Strassburg pieA forest stands; a stout pine Is still and frowned, yet is fineFor mill they all have had resolved At dawn in time to come in carriageRevealed his own soul simple, Meanwhile malevolance of peopleTo twenty six of own age. Was weary at leisure oneHis life was calm, without woe. Sometimes his neighbours in his homeI now see, of it confessing, That even my such poor styleAh, don’t mind’ -My friend, by God to hail I dare —- D’you joke -The whiskers and the bloody tongues, The horns and fingers made of bone -You, dreams, my dreams, where is your pleasure And rhyme to it: my youth, my treasure ?I thought that time: will do, perhaps; But what d’you think? again collapse!’Will show my renowned face And say: ‘It’s poet of grace!’You lie, young hard, in peace all age!’To rescue, to his hones - peace In grave, in mother-soil at ease!’They rush into the yard at once!Enough, my friend, its all the same!Its nicer, friends, much more when he Is wailing foolishly: its me!And could of high oppressive order All manners quickly imitate!She’s mere infant, But yet coquette! A giddy instance!Diana’s breasts, the cheeks of Flora Delightful are, my freinds, you see!On earth, then might be by her love She’d joined the friends the day above!Ah, no one, my friends, believe me!With scornful bitter contemplation Your proud look will me refuse!For me the glory bring, of course: Wry talks, the noise, a lot of curse!The gardens, chambers before me I could at once all gathered see!‘Who might be thinking... all the time!‘Forgive, my place, my peaceful mate!But what severe!Her real doubt Zadeka never could resolve!O’key, but let us part not frigid. Ah, youth my light! Ah, dear me!While looking after girls, and yet At them keep strictly your lornette!Be glad with such a man… You smart With rare wit your letter wrote!Arid thus we now part, forgive!‘Here’s He! that’s Eugene!My cousin dear, Sit down... complex is the life!Alas, it’s easy to divine!What joy: to-day we’ll have to dance!They whisper her, You, Doonya, see!She courted… at once decided: To Moscow by winter route!‘Well... I, my nanny… don’t know... For love I’m longing, dear me!Goodness me!My dear God, you bless and save!Forgive!Quite sad for me is your occurence, The spring, the spring! of love the time!The drive to Moscow! It means the world to see!What languid agitation current There is in blood and soul mine!More sweet, than joys beneath the moon, Will stay of Torkwat’s octaves tune!And dreams, that she with him as wife Will pass the peaceful mute of life!For Russian heart too much is fused And echoed in it through muse!What foolish, dumpy is this place!My travelling mate, I beg your pardon; My true ideal, you forgive!- Princess, mon ange! -My hearty friend, my friend beloved, You come, I’m husband yours by love!"Before arrival; anyhow She isn’t bothered (that’s female!);To go on with calm a talk, To fix at you the joyful stare!..And she is squeaking (dear me!): In gold chamber visit me!...Impossible!?Or could be poet with reasons (And I confess - could favour me).Do comme il faut… (Shishkov, forgive; can’t some good translation give).As legends say of old age (For that we’d praise in him the sage).Or Cleopatra may encore (By others to be heard once more).He sees some smelted snow; now, As if he sleeps in some doss-house,Accept you all my thankful feelings Admirer of peaceful muse,But was my Eugene satisfying By being free in prime of life,Tatyana with her eyes amazing A look at everything can take,Are full of piety, of wit, Such cautious, that we can’t endure,The kin from distant places rare Have tender welcome everywhere,Devoted to childish leisure 1 hike at lake in desert nature,With tender soul, clear sense Him gave attractive handsome face,I’m hiking round pretty lake, Some flocks of ducks by chance awoke,‘To me, Onegin, all this splendour, This tinsel of repelling life,And in the solitude severe Her passion’s heating yet much more,On table leaning with slight press, Are sitting, lost in thought. a little,Like women, books were all left here,To have a breakfast three together Could make them quickly reconcile,To her was due first dream unquiet Of poet: at love the drive,To grieve, to talk of new affairs, To laugh, to gossip for a while,In own village to appear New landlord in a droshky came,The poet in heat of judgement Some nothern poem could cite,He was enabled, slightly rushing, To speak of anything at once,Is she the same Tatyana real? To whom he privately, in haze,His heart is pressed, fulfilled with bore,By this half-tormenting a ramble, By table with a faded candle,Yet being child, in children’s throng To play and jump had none desire,The thirst demands some more of drinking To cool hot cutlet’s fat at once,Onegin was already ready With me some foreign lands to rate,And though Eugene, as we know, For long from reading turned his face,Some neighbours said of the impression That wedding had some pointed time,I live and write not for applause,With Tanya Lensky; Kharlikóva, The bride of more than ripening age,In brackets I would like to note: You haven’t more insulting lie,Recalling former love, such free, Perceptible and carefree,From archives coining several youngsters In throng at Tanya stiffly gaze,Enchanting land! In days of wisdom, Of satire great potentate,By now from a distant village The idol of the ladies ripe,Was teaching him with ready jest, With morals never was severe,With war; with magazine’s white lie; With snow and with own wife,Already I of plan was thinking, Of name of person number one,He looks al her with tender ardour; He’s yet beloved with previous force,Does not make cows go out, And when at noon they are forlone,From early times he was dissembling, Some hidden hope he could leave,Among his properties alone, To pass away his lazy time,His French was so perfect now, That he could chat, as well as write,From cold world of dissipation To fade away not having time,The love’s foregone, the muse appeared, And clearer my mind became,But l forsee some more of bounds: The honour of my land to save,‘Onegin, then I was much younger And, seems to me, much more was fine,For that at distance poor dwelling, For place, in which the first toy time,Somewhere you could look at me, But harmful is the North for me,Not having any higher passion To rhymes to dedicate his life,‘If I would wish to have restricted My life by family, you see,If by my lot I were convicted A husband, father just to be,A bloody roast-beef is given, And truffles, splendour of teenage,But I was born for peaceful living, In village stillness gladly breathe,If you could know, what’s diminished To languish in the thirst for love,He real bard resented there, When all alone, lost in haze,At start of novel good ideal In thicket of a distant place,I very much this word am liking, But cannot I this word translate,Tatyana to the yard, such wide,Of art high muses fine impressions He, happy, never put to shame,The almanacs and all the journals In which to us they lectures give,While he prefered to play a steed. His finger’s frozen a little,But his such sufferable shade,And then I shall begin to rhyme New couplets, more than twenty five,Let us sing in gaiety Song of maidens intimate,But well, she’s named Tatyana; gladless, Nor by her sister’s pretty grace,Nor longest years of the partings, Nor all to muses given time,It all was simple: floors of oak, Divan, the table, large wardrobe,But now, heartily I though Do love my hero fine,But breget bells are now clinking: New ballet will begin by chance,And great belief in world’s perfection, Forgive him ardour of his age,Who was unmodest, who by bristle. An answer, other trifles done,It’s right, of course, but trends of fashion, But of the nature willful pressure,-Ah, dear my! in my teenager We heard yet nothing of the love,The heart of somebody he’ll cherish, Arid, kept by touch of truthful fate,Alas, Tatyana’s daily fading: She’s paling, sinking and is mute,He doesn’t gather them with horn. A maiden’s singing in her house,Then changed in strict and quick a mode The maiden’s names by names from France,To village own took her soon; But she was often in a fume,By love intoxicated, Embarrassed by the tender shame,Between two aunts at column now, Not seen by anyone that tame,At nameless river, small and fine. In village where Eugene mine,In vain I try to be aware,But soon for husband, all at once,But Tanya’s heart yet isn’t gladdened, To meet the winter never came,It happened. When thunder of mazurka came,But I, it may be, not adoring Will see the secrets of the grave,He couldn’t be a bard for ever, He didn’t go mad or die,Tatyana’s pale and dismal charms, Her hair down let by chance,Sometimes with own blood she wrote To lady’s album if by chance,The girl appeared! Laugh was wild!. They all stood gaping for a while,And with Onegin’s recollecting Some jokes, pranks of old date,But Lensky, having no wishes Of marriage ties the weight to have,And much the more it’s nice in silence For him prepare honest grave,For words of love to be entreating, First move of heart to catch by chance,The modern taste of his attire, To keep your curious gaze,That time, when in lyceum’s gardens I flourished quickly, quite serene,Who killed at duel friend his own, Had lived without aim, this sage,Can hiss; with bearings important, By couplets tortured all the time,He bowed. Unattending body, At stage he looked as if by chance,A young two-horned the moon at sky, But at unusual left the side,Could give a fright by desperation, With flattery could draw one’s gaze,But when Vladimir disappeared, Onegin, languished by the bore,All peasants-men there are enriching, They get the silver with a spade,You must remember that day time,I’d like anew to warn all you: You, mothers, should be more severe,The guessing songs and round dance, On all Whitsundays caught a chance,To such an album, being tight, If to confess, I’d like to write,With wreath, ashamed, his hand in hand, With drooping head, as if yet lone,The bard of feasts, of languid sadness, you had chance to stay with me,And as a law for me imputing Of passions tyrany unique,Such men (I’m first of them to blame) From boredom dear friends became,And all entrust in singing voice The secrets of the maiden’s choice,She’s running - he is after her; She can’t be running any more,‘But who is she?’ She is my wife,Enticing goblet for my love, Its you, who made me drunk with love,Like idol, - you, Omir divine, - For three millenniums in line,His wit of poet was milding; His constantly inspired faze, -Onegin was in eyes of people, (Which were in judgements strict, not feeble,)The health, the prime of life, its sweetness, The smile, the innocent calm ease,-They sat. The aging sleigh is sliding, Is stilly crawling through the gate.Can press her heart, or a misfortune, That waits for her, is black, makes noise.You poets, are queer!’ -Good bye, Onegin, time has gone.And then in secret could defame them By merry jest or real he.He under chest was wounded here, The blood yet steaming flew at ease.To try to find in Russia whole Of them three pairs straight and fine.Like heat are shining crosses dear; They guilded cupolas adore.Or roses of flaming cheeks, Or bosom, which awaits for fortune.My poor Lensky! badly pining Not very long was weeping she.By winter carpets, snow-made.But road alarm of love then filled me.The lilt, well known round me: Reveilles vous, belle endormie.Was lost in thought; to Olga near Revengeful words said no more.Italian nights I shall adore.She’s after me.Not stopping coming in advance, The first of them to catch a chance.In shade of old trees protective, He was in games her mate effective.Reliably well screwed the flint Is cocked once more.Your glance made languish me far love, Your voice was touching all my feeling For long... But that was not a dreamt You came, at once I got to know: Inflamed and heated I was whole.Who wrote comedies with joy; With glory Didla’s crowned there.He is suspending This quite unpleasant tete-a-tete.Which’s shiny, windy and alive, But selfish, idle, thirsts for thrive.Were lilted with passions, lazy fidgets, With dreams of thoughtful soul’s haze.My Lensky’s feelings all were smeared, He was afraid at her to glance.It’s mute for ever all at once.A mere hit from all I’d give.And placid, solidly effected, In style of clever old time.Have less in difference between Each one.But fate for us was never steady: For long we had to separate.Aggressive lenders each offends, Each has his own wit and sense.But well, its time I should be busy: The beauty’s letter I should use.In tender manner they agree.From pistol he, not being rattled, At fifteen metres stuck the ace.Upstairs to the highest rate.Alas! for funs, which can be differed, I’ve ruined much of own life.The plates and covers jointly clatter, The glasses clink, all filled with wine.Forbidding goddess, guile inventive, Of reigning, sumptuous Neva fine.For long is weeping she this time.They friends became.And thought of her in him inspired First moan of his conscious life.For husband then she was yet bride.And to the same and strict revealer, To neighbourhood occasions gave.With secret grief I read this matter, While reading cannot put aside.To have a rest and have a hike, That’s why I’ll finish other time.Two bullets - fitting at this rate - Will quickly settle all his fate.Arid, following Petrarka’s tracks, Could calm his heart’s the biggest trouble.The morning pleasant noise arose.Iambus he, at frank confession, From trochee couldn’t tell meanwhile.The fisher’s fire.Was talking much of them with pride.The corvee yoke changed for rate, And serfs were blessing their fate.Expresses death but not the torture.He can’t endure such a blow; The whims of women he can curse.Good-bye, the witness of past glory, Petrovsky castle.Replace the fortune.In gallery the claps are flying, And rising curtain makes a noise.To grasp that time he had a chance, But as a student he’s a dunce.With Olga Tanya; quickly rather Onegin Olga took for dance.Unmovingly he lay, and queer Was heavy brow’s languid peace.By children and by loyal wife With candid never seen in life.Tatyana now sighs and moans, The letter’s trembling on her palm, The wafer’s drying on her own Inflamed by fever rigid tongue.Like London dandy, well arrayed, First coming to the world he made.Malfilatre.In icy bottle for the poet Sometimes is brought at proper time.From novel’s only beginning — I’ve finished now chapter one.‘I’ll perish, - says my Tanya’s voice - From him to die is pleasant fortune.But if the morals never shifted, My love to ballets could survive.Some real honour and the pride.Believe (for bail I give my conscience), The wedlock will be poignant nonsense.All’s blight, all’s white without shade.It was neglected., large in gauge, Of dryads shelter for an age.It will sometime all us illume, Will gift the world some blessed perfume.Some scornful, cunning, idle ventures, - Your angry blame I grasp in haze.In life with us like new it’s hiking, And hardly will it have good fate.His everyday employments rather In details I should well describe.They see encircled by its grove Petrovsky castle.But foot, such small, of Terpsichore More charming somewhat is for me.All services of old time.I can’t foresee any objection To this representation made.As pawn that’s worth of dear mate.Of linden alleys dimmish To places where he then came.Could catch the glory by the way: But I in love was dumb, inane.It looked for him through all his life Like own shade or loyal wife.Pm sure... none, They’ll be the family, the one.To play the cards was used with me.Of girls, the tears, faints not rare: Enough he had them all en route.Is brought a long way off by fate, They must for ever separate.As well as seeds in vital strife In earth by spring are given life.Fille était fille, elle était amourese. She was a girl She was in love.Marmontel’s volume them he gave.In wonder style To every place he came in time.The boy was frisky but with grace.Of course, of him I’ll quickly know,- For him I now haven’t time.Is drawn, in turn I’ve bad nay time.Comes in, of dead has strong resemblance.It means: my noon has come, its needed For me to realize, I see.By their poetic light He own soul did ignite.And unattentive smart lornette.It is forgivable.I don’t like the Russian speeches Without grammar incompleteness, As well as lips without smile.La, sotto i giorni nubilosi e brevi, 			Nasce una gente a cui i’morir non dole.Nor by her pleasant ruddy freshness She’d catch one’s eyes by simple face.It’s late.Alas! young bride, if she were trying, To sadness loyal couldn’t be.With time I’d smooth and then might be I’d find a friend to suit my soul, Would be a loyal wife on whole, And virtuous mother I would be.Could make of clever fool for ever, Explicit or implicit one.He’s handsome, rich, of fair manner. And neighbours said: he needs a bride.«Freischutz» lovely tune But played by pupils in a Fume.When I to wretchers was assisting Or by the prayer was releasing From stress my soul within me.Who’s waiting for her husband sadly Alone daily all her life.But then a frenchman took her place.The banks of stopped, unmoving river By shroud are equated here.The capital’s high pick was there, Of fashion patterns, the elite.With joy he knew: for wedding carriage Two weeks ahead was fixed above.To Eugene sent his hearty greetings: Some hints on nearness he gave.Boom could fade.There is a place not tar from house In which inspired bard could rouse.I have without any doubts Tatyana’s letter to translate.Eternal choir or the waves, To lord of world the hymn of praise.His epigram’s unwaited file Could make all pretty ladies smile.At Verrey’s every morning’s time On credit drank three quarts of wine.Of sad misgivings she is full, Foresees misfortunes as a rile.The shepherd’s singing as before And makes bast sandal more and more.The colonel sent it for the chance.He’s blessed, who in his youth was youthful! He’s blessed, who well in time was ripe.Fonvizin shone, a friend of freedom, Knyazhnin was always up-to-date.She like the moon to shine has come Among the wives and maids the one.I don’t mean to please grand people.Between blancmanger and roasts fine They now bring the Tsimlyan wine.Are not, or far away are living, As Sadi said before I write.He sang of how life could fade; All that in his teenage he made.Was always punished wicked vice, And good was given garlands twice.The heirs of estate, all cross, Obscenely disputes try to force.All my confessions must you take: For judgement yours I give my fate.Among the children would he die At hands of doctors, weepers, wife.And at the brook in thickened shade Is put a monument just made.And even this my chapter five — From all digressions to refine.At Simeon’s he’s now Living. He saw me at Twelfth-night sometime, His son was married then meanwhile.With dreams and heart of old days In her this time again could raise.To lesson yours attended I, To-day, you see, the turn is mine.Still humble, deaf like long before, Still eats and drinks for two or more.To jokes mixtured with the bile, To epigrams with no smile.In shade of branch some simple cross On grave of dear, poor nurse.Of young delirium high rage.Until his breget sleepless, fine Will strike the bells for him to dine.She-neighbour her to outshine, Herself is though dazzling, fine.And stubbornly he looks; but she Is sitting quietly, she’s free.Allow me, the readers mine, To show you her elder line.But I… it doesn’t bother me: To old times I’ll loyal be.To us: from it we have not more Than mincing manners to adore.With him be keeping, and the sledge To park in field not far from hedge.In man’s attire all arrayed, The goddess comes to masquerade.To him for tree, mysterious rather: Forbidden fruit to have you’d like, Or Eden to itself’s unlike.Of instant thought some slight a trace, But of the same for years race.They take away the chairs, plates, Them call, they give the friends a place.I write it, as for long my time I haven’t any sin of mine.He’s hiking. Never, I believe, He has been bothered that I grieve.Sometimes will give you all the rate Of all your own real fate.But happiness of youth has gone Like light foot-prints in fields forlone.Has withered at the morning dawn., The fire at the altar’s gone.I can’t I am at will your own And I give up to all my fate.Its morning: everyone again Is up. To her it’s all the same.Sometimes she beat a house-maid, - All that not asking man she made.Ah, never impulse of the sense Put rack my soul ever hence.To her is drinking first, his rhyme He gives to Tanya at that time.Did never touch hire as before, He caught the sight of nothing more.They all are family the same, The sons of greedy bore at game.Tatyana’s flushing, all she’s trembling - To be to-day he promised me,- Vladimir answers, - may be, he For post now yet is waiting.- Tatyana stands, she drops her eyes As if reproached by the vice.The boys got dogs behind the fence And took the maiden for defence.Between the Limburg lively cheese And best pine-apple gold squeese.You make my sleepy heart revive, To my good nook more often dive.‘You, nanny, let me stay forlone.At such a year, such an age.By new one can’t I be admired I pity old one - it’s true.The foes put the capes on steppe.Or otherwise I’d be with rages By all my kin pursued for love.-‘You tell of those Your old times... I’ve boring tide..’As they them wrote many years Of might, as it through ages came..’‘...can’t sleep, it’s stuffy, you unclose The window and sit beside...’‘D’you think.’ indeed... suspicions any… But do you see...Ideal image, Tanya’s rhyme...The field is dark in pretty gale...But they, to whom at friendly meeting My first of stanzas could I cite...Dear! come to rue… As in a dream it seems to be...None soul’s seen in rooms at entrance...Yes, It is he...On their foreheads words of Hades: Forever hopes you must leave...Unlucky victim, Lensky’s gone...He isn’t here...All neighbours came by closed sleigh, By hooded carts, by britzkas, sledge...To keep the happy stirrup dare...While at the moon Tatyana’s looking, By own heart away she’s gone...-But no one...Next day has come...‘Well, no, just the same...The breath is fading in her lips, She heard some noise, her eyes did glimpse...‘I see, in world you’ve been too rare...Meanwhile her soul’s feelings moan, Her tears filled her languid glance...To me that time you were quite right,’ To you is grateful soul mine...In winter here they had dinner With Lensky, neighbour late, as rule...Much more... -‘But they will have a throng of people And all the other rabble feeble..?.I’m free, but look for union, geared In sound, sense and temper game/Turned off, then yawned and said at once:He thinks of here:But all the nothern Russian summer Of south winter bad burlesque:To him she doesn’t pay attention, You strive or die, it is the same:But soon she all was full of go, By it she calmed herself at once:The habits sugared all her woe Which wasn’t smoothed by any chance:Green tables are prepaired now, All active players they invite:Like Harold Child Onegin’s fallen Into the thoughtful lazy haze:A smooth-tongued voice of world, it happened, His evil bravery could praise:Arrives he now every day; Her follows like own shade:He wanted to establish own, In orders newer fashioned line:But several books of common row Himself excluded from disgrace:It was well known friendly wellcome:Of poet, who’s anyhow Convicted to the truthful love:A bottle of some light sweet wine, Some solitude, the stillness fine:In them he draws the country whole, The Kyprid’s temple, graves alone:His Olga’s jumping from the porch Like feather-brained and trail a hope:Of three kibitkas transport own Can bring belongings of the home:They were some secret good traditions Of tender, shady old age:With all her cooling beauty lone Did like the Russian winter fine:With my request immodest, gladless I’d trouble you for helping me:You help my doubts to resolve:Buyánov, my quick-temperd brother, To Eugene brought two girls at once:By chance his verse yet anyhow Is kept by me; you read this rhyme;Not very long he could behold The girls as object of his choice;All over the Baltic waves For forest, fat and hand-made lace;And youth of those vanished days All after her could wildly dangle;To tiresome this drive, all failing, An hour or two they gave;Cast-iron bridges over waters Will go like a bow wide;Sometimes Onegin was surprised, With what could mutely coincide;Or tenderer - like little moth Which sucks spring flower with force;The highways Russia will unite, Connect and cross its any side;He pined away, he was dissuading, Was dull and jealous, made believe;The smile of lips, the move of eyes To catch by loving eyes somewhere;The days were speeding; heated air Could mean: the spring is coining fine;Of old times the heat of feeling, May be, could capture for a while;The door of coffin was unclosed: To have new wreath he got a chance;In them in stillness of the day He real tears could expose;And she insensibly is drifting, She doesn’t move and doesn’t breathe;Uneasily she was expressing Her thoughts in mother tongue expressive;They speak to him of no more, But being bachelor is bore;I ask: be patient for a time;His ardent talk was full of haze;At any novel those features, Her own portrait, very nice;And she, that young and lovely creature;I simply wrote Of idle, blackish dreams of mine;A poet by will of goodness, New devil then will enter me;And parents foresaw the fate: Were calculating wedding date;At last like dead to petrify In deadly thrill of world on whole;Of thoughts dead capital again To raise from dead you’ll give a hope;His passions were too quickly cold, And he was bored by worldly noise;They had invited several maids With never smiling, sullen face;By thoughts of her each one another Unfavourably try to daze;And many boys with joyful cries Are scaring on sonorous ice;Or on the lyre draws a dove With pens and paints, with all his love;Of traitresses quite young at all, Of mates despised a circle close;Perhaps, in Lethe won’t perish My verse, by wit and heart well made;And even by her trembling hands To lift her dress ashamed she's here;When she recovered she is looking: Some inner porch... the bear's gone;In afternoon they squash and crowd, In drawing room they meet new face;Child-Harold’s copy, grim, morose To inner rooms and halls he came;We knew the game of passion’s oath; By life were anguished as a rule;The yard was under snow dense: Parterres, roofs and all the fence;To see you more to have a chance. To follow you everywhere;Mazurka is the crowd’s choice; All round are crush and noise;With Russian hammer and the might Return to sleighs the foreign image;And by the people’s usual custom On Christmas must we come to see;Can’t now blame: that dreadful time To be more honest could you dare;Who made his life not cooled, but useful, With years could his aims abide;To make the friends embroiled become, Made friends to barrier to come;To fix her fate it’s time, I see;Iván Petróvich’s fool and bore, Semyón Petróvich stints yet more;Yet outside, as well’s inside, The lanterns everywhere shine;Where is that sullen gloomy crank, The killer of the bard such feeble?’And wondered: would he be alive?’‘But now tell;’ she says, ‘to me: Whom did you see in dream with me?’And what can give me fate of mine?’But are you listening yet to me?‘I don’t hamper you, but dear, For evenings where have you gone?And where is her sister line?You didn’t like me; What has happened, That after me you now are?For what and where do I strive?And passed away of tears time?Well, I remember... has he gone?Insults all proud paltry males: The wit them presses, needs a space?Of humble girl some secret love?To ride a horse in steppe severe?I don’t grudge: why should I grudge?What’s use?Of many kin suspicious gaze, Of husbands friendship’s heavy haze?Each other day be seen I must, That I am rich in wealthy caste?What does next day for me prepare?What purpose?Who’s he?Such time what can you do in village?For long has chance with us to be?‘Where are, where are withdrawn you now The golden days of life my prime?But whom to love?And that... but afterwards you’ll know, Is not it true?What for to grieve?Indeed, d’you have this kind of mate Destined to your severe. fate?About girls, you meant above, And how did you fall in love?Indeed she now could behave Indifferently, could be brave?But can’t you really absolve Her passions, if you them revolve?My dashing Eugene?My goddesses’ what are you? where?‘Indeed? - my Eugene’s now thinking, - But is it true?..My bad translation incomplete. Its like of picture poor copy; Or like ofAnd quickly both they yet offThe tracks of tears; in a chair In front of heroine in griefTo Lensky speaking of himself, Revealing all his heart itself,He knew the Latin anyhow: To talk about epigraf,Zarétsky, brawler; they believe: Of gambling gang he was the chief,Sometimes to Olga he is reading With morals novel for herself,And you, ‘Bordeaux’ you came friendly, Like friend in trouble and in grief,To comfort sorrow and grief.Delights it glorifies itself, Without love it revels self.At home did he shut himself And yawning, tried to write of self.Whose author bolter nature’s feeling Than Chateaubriand does himself.And to Onegin with wry smile From poet he gives for reading A leaf.Each one by nature is restricted By contradictions in himself.Alone with his soul’s self Unsatisfied was by himself.Who’s always proud of himself, Of dinner and of wife herself.And happy rights for own self Like haughty Moscow itself.Onegin’s out by himself, He goes to redress himself.Has breathed, has wailed; from nothern shelf Enchanting winter comes herself.But he’s forgotten, and to other His bride has given all herself...For him two hearts, I can believe, Yet are in grief...And then he dressed himself...Well, she had found charming secret In sense of horror by itself:And nothing cooled his strong belief:Let’s visit them; you’ll be obliging: Or otherwise you judge yourself:By those phantoms he, vain seeker, Should not in vain exhaust himself:To write about otherself As if about ownself?Or where Terpsichore one Amazes all the public youngThe veil on hat she turns away, And superficially is readingIf she’s seeingAh, dear, all my inner feelingI write, and heart yet isn’t boring, The pen unwitting isn’t drawingYou came two times, but then of self You don’t make them yet remindingAt last before the dawn of morning His tired head on table’s fallingSees no use (and not in vain). But hearty pain to be abidingAnd leans on him with trembling hands; All fearful she’s shyly steppingOf other, old, better spring, And all the heart it is alarmingI prize my hours, my days: But I’m in idle boredom wastingThe jumps, moustache, the clicks of heels Are all the same without changingNot by the post-chaise, by jade, And my Tatyana was enjoyingAid he awoke; they are bringing A letter: him prince N. is biddingAnd everywhere finds some mark... But none relief she is yet findingGrey-haired couple of Scotinin With all the children you’d be seeingAnd by the salt of worlds backbitingThe storm has breathed; his prime such charmingHer father was good-humoured being, From age retarted. Scornful feelingAt last he fast awakes from dream, Apart the flaps of curtain’s movingAnd Lei is soaring above head: And under pillow unmovingWith dangerous book alone’s hiking, In it reveals she so strikingAnd then at prince she was adjustingSincerely, in grief embracingOf what the secret book, she hid, In daughter’s bed till day was dreamingHer soul managed to engage; And near him Tatyana seeingFor long to hear, understand Perfections yours, all them confessingI saw, Onegin, you in life. For cemetry, eternal settingHer young and dear, pretty, charming, Her confidante, her near darlingCongratulating Tanya dear With first success at fair ringMaiden’s SongI…’ -But you are boringHimself should show as the hard Without prejudices heading(Still previous happiness was feeling) To see my Moscow just kneelingThat Eugene and his friend Vladimir At dawn will argue their livingAt fire-place the table’s lain: Onegin’s waiting - Lensky’s speedingOnegin stilly her is helping And in the corner is her layingTo make your dear magic tuning Of beauty’s passion mood, resuming- All they are yet feelingTatyana’s now trembling, seeing By what a thought, a note, feelingOf city dandies, maidens rich To catch the eyes derisive, ratingMeanwhile the moon was brightly shining, By languid light it was enlightningRan up and not without fightingThe clock’s been strikingAs no knowledge they had had, And dearly were deformatingAll yet livingFor him she never will he waiting; In him she always must be hatingBy clear smile the nature’s fitting Through dream the year’s morning meetingOr with the nature just reviving We close in, confused by mindingAnd I had found then, amazing: By their bashful, stern behavingI cannot show to the end As I must go after speakingWell, his example gives a lesson; But, goodness me, it’s quite distressingThe time is fast, she must be out: For her are waiting so longAnd comes to bouieward quite forlone: He there at a space is walkingAs well as poor moth is blending And shines like rainbowed a thingWhen him a schoolboy clips the wing, Or like a little hare’s tremblingTo guess the windy youth is tryingWhat would you feel if by your pistol Were killed a friend such good and youngYou don’t want? - check up your cost, Or grudge, or drink, and thus the eveningOnegin quickly recognized The talk of love, which was fulfillingOnegin’s soul always tries Unwittingly to show feelingAt last she’s very deeply sighing, From little bench is getting‘And I was gingebread you giving!’‘There is my crony, he said, To warm yourself you must be trying!’His nets for them were so frightening!He looks, he calls him - all’s for nothing!His scandal talks were such backbiting!The Christmas tide for joy is coming!But yet not sharing with throng Ideas, passions yours life long".All heads are now grandly shaking The neighbours whisper (they are wailing):At you in village have a weak But look. To listen to your speaking,The noisy talks he was escaping; All their prudent talk, such raving,My soul secret forms was keeping, My muse made all them once more living,He shouts: ‘Stop your own crying And croaking the same, and whining,By prudent talk without trite, E ternal morals, prigs surviving,The languid wit forever smiles; The heart is still, its never dashing,And calmly edge of earth is lighting, And, sign of day, the wind is rising,Already for triumph he’s waiting,But its magestic merry fizz Caused foolishness and some misgiving,Concerns of heart he was ignoring, He future hopes was adoring,A lady’s love until to-day To speak her Russian isn’t trying,Just He! His gaze on her he’s fixing, Like dreadful shade for her he’s reaching,Alone’s sitting, pale and thin, She is some letter now reading,And in a while of storm the track In soul mine will soon be ceasing,To chase the love and all at once To get agreed a secret meeting,Of sense precautions never heeding, To her glass porch too close speeding,Adulteries were not adonng; His friends and freindship made him boring,In it, in spite of rules of spelling Excessive verse, as they are telling,To queer dreams did not abandon, From mob apart was never standing,Arid though ladies can be talking Of Say and Bentham at the walking,Her breast as yet is greatly trembling,With ranks of books his shelf fulfilling, For long he eagerly was reading,All wine from goblet at his hand Was not till end life’s novel reading,Each minute more is captivated By Olga’s beauty so young,In sadness he it all was reading, At once he hurried for the meeting,With lyre, while abroad residing, In Goethe’s, Shiner’s places hiking,It is predicting to my gazing Reward, which I can’t be appraising,With autumn skies were dayly breathing, Not every day the sun was gleaming,His lyre, now mute, could dare Alarm a loud peal for long,The sweet prosperity and freedom; I read a little, sleep for long,What roses, you can be judging,And now North, all clouds driving,Because of ache of own head. And, though staying rake adoring,For him the aim of life was smart Quite puzzling riddle, much alluring,Devotion to dreams unwitting, Unimitated strange unfitting,In fear I was crying, darling,In front of you with signs of death Is stiffening slowly, is cooling,Khandra pursued him, always waiting,In snow-drifts in front of maiden A stream is boiling, all is raging,A trice ago was he living And his young heart was full of feeling,Of that two words I must be speaking: Of young my friend I’m now singing,Then sudden caper - and she fleets Like down from Eolus marching,And being free, again	revel In girl from Venece, pretty, young,She kept accounts; always then On Saturdays they bath were serving,Enjoyed by thunder of the music From tea with rum at once refusing,A brave sledge-cart from field’s returning, It’s fluffy furrows upturning,In great confusion she is hastening, While falling star yet isn’t fading,But Hymen’s troubles, griefs of mating,Deceased was buried after meeting, The priests and guests were drinking, eating,For fair of the brides her bring,Like convict in the stocks from jail If brought to forests while he’s sleeping,Of course, for times you have been seeing A country maiden’s album big,At first of them she didn’t think, But their choice seemed queer thing, And she was lost in their reading,Yet might be less fulfilled for while By foreign words without pressing,Of pale and foggy, sleepy moon The lazy East is yet asleeping, -Two neighbours, home have been walking And all about her are talking.Regards of them to you I’m giving.That’s why in French she’s always writing.And several minutes after that With her the waltz again he’s dancing.It’s both harmful and absorbing.Of loos, friends and lover-maids The voice is fading.Automedones all are dashing Untiring are troikas flashing.They laugh; the guests are now coming.At home coffee used to drink; Were poor journals for him waiting.They say, you are a lone guy, In country’s stillness you are boring.She all is trembling, paling, shying.But then with books she could be dealing.All barking, dogs to her are running.Nor makes get up without choosing.For his delight were just awaiting.In sunny rays all sparkling, shining A block of snow hardly sliding.But soon to farming she began To be accustomed and relying.‘Ah, nanny, that is quite (mother, I’m never bothered by your wit; I speak of letter, you should fit For that Onegin’ -Well done dealing.To protests of soul’s voice, Suppressed his yawning by his laughing.He didn’t want to cheat meanwile The trusting heart of pure being.In fear shameful heart is sinking.She had in hand: by fire heat That hero she was meeting.To Talon’s surely he’s raiding. Kaverin there is awaiting.At last he gave it up, and failing, Himself he found at her dwelling.That gets away of cheecks the flaming.To Lensky he could listen smiling.He hurries up to ring.For her the truthful sign it was That guests are coming.A nightingale in haze of night His loud melodies is tuning.That was the way of Eugene’s thinking.Which by the girl-friends had been scribbling From start, from end in any twig.A passionate epistle’s writing.Who left Tambóv without hindrance, He wears glasses, brown wig.Mazurka’s sounding.Above this urn, to fate submissive, A wreath mysterious could swing.A stream Like silver shines. And after dream By hornlet peasants have been waking.She hears rings of glasses, hooping Like at the funeral great, long.From Bade that sceptical was reading, With works of Fontanelle was meeting.Tatyana looks but isn't. soon To this world’s fuss she’s hatred feeling.Triquet gets up; the whole meeting The deepest silence now’s keeping.To brush his nails in front of him, Eloquent madcap, wasn’t grasping.Her letter of unwitting kind By love of innocence is breathing.For flying glory don’t long.Together go and with him To take the box with fighting thing.A mill is squatting in the dancing, By wings it crackles, flaps, is glancing.A word to say, and then again To think arid think, but of the same All day and night until new meeting.At their fascinating signs The flaming looks of men are fleeting.This way my Eugene was her teaching.Onegin’s pining, feels a smart, He seems to be consumption feeling.To reverence for singing that; The poet, such great but shying.Some poet from ranks of army Signed verse of villaine, though charming.And we... with nothing can we shine, We all to see you are adoring.In epigrams it. would be fitting...). But let’s return to lady sitting.Around carriage of the young; To see them off Tatyana flung.Of men, whom I can’t judge for long, As I myself to them belong.The master’s gone God knows where, Tracks are wrong.She never could caress inspire For parents; it all seemed wrong.Of mind some vague a thought is moving...Of turnpike pillars white and florid Are seen... Tverskaya gets along...Too long the silence’s now seeming...The snow-drift at once is moving...The evening darkness comes along...Is heard; the dwelling all is shaking...Imagine: I’m alone, thus From no man have understanding...Let’s turn the route we now here To keep in mind of whom I sing...In horror Tanya is awaking...The fire-place is fading...For me your honour is the bail, I trust you bravely all my feeling...To silent room of bard, alarms And wakens Lensky by appealing:An Lane’s home from the morning Is full of guests, of kin adoring:To her they gave a little ring, An old song began to sing:The end of life; of loss confess With no hopes for regaining:What languid is her gaze guile charming:Who pleased her soul and the mind, Much more was touching all her feeling:I’ve been deprived of that; I race, At hazard after you I’m dangling:In games with doll can train for mild Decorum of the loyal living:The more to light the darkness fits. In vain for fields she’s now looking:He rules her, but neglectly gliding, And, bending, whispers her his finding:On day the third at early morning Tatyana saw and was adoring:He saw in it some dreadful harm; The other smiled, but smile was cunning;At clavichords he had been sitting, But only for chords was fitting;With more bow can be meeting, Sometimes at all him isn’t seeing;With threat Onegin raised his hand And wildly with his eyes is shining;He may each entrechat catcall, Or hiss Moina, Fedra greeting;Or where Thalia’s stilly dreaming To friendly claps yet isn’t listening;Who hates the moving and the word When you translate him their meaning;Yet someone hisses, feet are stamping, Some blow nose, cough, are clapping;That recently I was you christening?’‘But who? plump general that big?’D’you, Grandison in mind yet keeping?’What was the sequence of the meeting?But nowadays... explain the gist; To feet of mine what is you leading?And what’s Onegin doing?In front of you in pangs to stand, To pale, to fade... That is the blessing?Among his victories to thrive, And his amusements gratifying?For how long?Like Harold, Quaker will he fit? Like hypocrite or other fig?Surprises deeply all his reeling?And who, d’you think, from it is looking?Or really she guessed not wrong?Invitations for a meeting?About what she’s now dreaming?Whom you’d be trusting?But why, Onegin, you are yawning? -I love you (why should I be cunning?).He trembles... to princess he’s coming; His Tanya lone he is finding_The heat of hearts became all cool; Besides we were awaited bothBut riot at all: like long ago For poor bard is on the watchOr on the leaves for recollections, Of other signatures beneathYou’ll see: they all become the boshHer spirit longed for fatal food; Long since unbearable anguishHer movements were unhurried, slow. Nor cool, nor talkative is, thoughThen they estimated Each one another; daily forthArrange the pillows in bed Then give him drugs in sadness, thoughAnd her attires, such belating, And her belating tune of speech!Could me enjoy... I’ve had my fill; It is enough!To him occurs A stubborn, rude idea though,If mincing cat, on stove sitting, While purring could his muzzle wash,But Latin’s not in fashion now. To tell the truth but frank enough,Annoyance, jealousy could vanish In front of eyes with clear relish,My friend Elvina! Nothing hinders To love it under table cloth,Among the people wise quite choicely To pass for feigned a queer. fish,The spring to country all you calls, The time of work, of fruits, of warmth,At least regret, sincere pity, At least by sounds of the speech,He’s trembling, loses fitting words, He’s happy, has improved his health,‘Ah, Eugene!’, - She is quickly running, Like shade she’s prompt, to exit’s jumping, From porch for garden through the yard She flies, to look yet back it’s hard; In short a minute she’s been racing Across the bridges and the glade, Along the forest, brook, the lake, She is the lilac bushes breaking, Through flowers she runs... in wrench Without breath she reached a bench,The coachman’s on -box with lash In sheepskin coat and red sash.With waves I wished myself somehow To touch her dear feet by mouth.Alone to my nurse, who’s being My old friend from youth and forth.At crumpled canopy lies next A riding switch.Was pedant, judging of the cloth, We’ll call him dandy for the forth.Of hope, enmity and love, The blood was boiling, life could laugh.And so grew they old both.It’s striking ten; he’s driving out. He’s flying... now he’s at porch.I wait: with glance when you approach Some hopes give to poor heart Or heavy dream you stop by hard Alas! deserved by me reproach.Distinguished: bravely to the slush From Kalmyk horse he fell in rush.In own dreams all’s being lost For long Tatyana goes forth.And they expressed the common wish To call him dangerous queer fish.Each year guessed for misses much: From army husbands and the march.Was his emotional speech. Black curls his shoulders could reach.In hands I have Tatyana’s letter. It’s kept by me with sacred sigh.With friend a pistol fight to launch, To aim at temple or at haunch.With short a word or with a cross, With question sign and so forth.In eastern comfort being cherished Sad northern snow to embellish.He curses all unbidden guests; And half alive she can’t have breath..As object of the judging noisy, In life you’d never have a wish:Onegin had that room for living, In which his uncle lived on earth:Tatyana tries to listen better To interests of the common clash;At neighbour’s monument submissive He dedicated him a sigh;But in the parlour all are flattered By such a trifle, banal trash;Again his time Onegin counts, Again the day is dragging forth;Who carefully us can cherish?Who helps from slander not to perish?Annoyance? bustle? or anew Some love - the trouble of the youth?For my mistakes in Russian grammar, - Help God to find in all this bookTo country, people in the groves, To isolated dear nookAt home he took out pistols To check them up, then put them backYou now bless long years’ workAmong the hills in semicircle Well go there where brookMeanwhile with cold sham to dare To force the speech and look with mockSometimes are troubling wit and heart: Without printing pretty markTwo pines accreted by one root, Beneath are streaming snakes of brookTo what a storm of sudden sensing At heart he now has to duck!In one he saw of brandies order, In other found debit book,His morbid and quite dying look,If I had any hope rigid Not often, mere once a week,For intricate and slander talk, In checking all my traits for mock,‘Left side?.. but where? what is there?’ I ‘It doesn’t matter, but you look,The hamlet, where Eugene’s boring, Is nice and cosy a nook,But if the age is late and fruitless At natural turn of life for rack,‘But all the elegies are mere A trifle, aimless idle talk,Of music roar, of candles gleaming, The flash, the whirl of couples quick,As at the reason of the parting Tatyana’s grumbling at the brook,Where are of stormy love his itchings, The thirst for knowledge and for work,The pistols all are now shining, The hammer’s jingling at the lock,Her husband’s love to wife was hearty, Her deeds he took for mere crank,My Eugene’s standing As if by thunder has been struck,And own pawn with own rook Distracted Lensky there took,But as a whole their talk Is harmless, but unpleasant mock.The frost is sparkling, we are glad To everyone of winter prank.For greetings and congratulations She gives each one her thankful look.At Tanya tries to be impressing My unreclaimed yet now crank.Let me look back.In it a friend of joys quite virgin Could bless the sky if cast a look.To trust his wife he was light-hearted, In dressing-gown ate and drank.Its dark.And who inspired touching talk Which looks like madman’s hearty mock.And she to empty house went In which had lived the novel’s crank.Through grass is snaking, green and purple, Through linden trees for river’s crook.To barrels go bullets hiding; First time is clicking pistol’s cock.She doesn’t see yet any party Which could be helpful in the hook.The evening sky’s more dark.Into the box; he now bristles; Undressed, he took some Shiller’s work.To conic again to have a look And there lone read some book.To play by her untwisted lock, To kiss the edge of Olga’s frock.Yet long ago did I look For words in Academic Book.Of multiplied his own crank.Like shade she aimlessly is hiking And comes into deserted park...Her face but has of wrath a track...Somehow, Without prefaces, just now, For hero of my book Let me attract attentive look:He now leaves the noisy rout. He goes home, has to think;To walk?Or, as before, he plays the crank?But send your boy, and first of all’ .The jams, eternal talk of all: Of rain, of flax, of horses’ stall…’Of interest she is now full And tries herself the door to pull…Would bore, eat, drink, be ill, he fat, At last in own bed idealOf them some queer clown dismal Her found almost idealHe doesn’t go, ready now To write to ancestors: to hailThe depth of mist can it conceal, Of fate right law will it revealYou alone Among anxieties in stillWell, may he all it is by now The fraud of innocent young girlAnd flitting quickly snow-storm Is shining, whirling. But at all‘Ah, poor Yorick, said he, joyfulMuch longer now she is hiking, But now brook and now hillWith clear soulA bowlBut simply I to you will send The legends of the Russian realLike in a dreadful misty dream Against each other in the stillHe mutely bowed to the girl, His gaze somehow was in allHe was to blame at times more thickly: At first, he wasn’t right at allTo challenge you could try like hell? But in your soul can you tellClarissa, Julie and Delphina; Tatyana in the forest’s stillSometimes she’s talkative or dumb, In secret gondola I’ll travelAre blessed the troubles of the day, Is blessed the darkness of the gravelBy night’s benevolent light breathing We mutely reveled and could fail!Of puffing to my face the spring In bosom of the country’s still!Well have the music regimental!Opinion of the public mournful!He came, What news, such sentimental!Of all the charming for the bail And would be happy... till I fail!To you I’m greatful!At the beginning of my novel — (In chapter first you look it all)About news and fashions dear With dolls she didn’t talk at all,It serves him right: to think if strictly, If secret judge for him to call,I’m sorry that you go… well, My dear Lensky, will you tell,But Eugene was beyond conception: Of course, he knew the people well,A bee to fields, of tribute well,It’s in the backwoods and it all Is bound by the snow-fall,Now spiteful, Like in vendetta they are frightful,Entreaties and confessions making, To speak of anything I feel,Which are half-funny and half-mournful,Its worth of fine and charming soul,Of common thinking, somewhat thoughtful,She went and went.., All of a sudden Sees manor-house from a hill,At sea I wait for better season, The sails of ships I call, I feel,On old prejudices harmful, Eternal secret tombs alarmful,But all the youngsters, always flaming, Could never enmity conceal,The memory of bard, yet youthful, Will sink into oblivion truthful,In which they all are cursing me; Some kinds of madrigals, not oral,Arise and ripen, then will fall, And others after them come all,Lets attract. brave fellow To the chorus merriful,Which was for him from time of childhood Like work and torment, was delightful,His genius was unique, alone, He knew of something best of all,But where of Melpomen heavy Resounds fine and drawling wail,With all my soul being sure That any rubbish, done with zeal,His heart was sad, his voice was mournful.Such acts insulted neighbours all, They stopped to come to him at all.Induce to have a stop, inviting In front of their charms to kneel.Like victim under charming veil.Is flying from the waxy cell.It’s true, that all we live in ages, When rather boring is high call.Its time! - I everyday appeal.No should disarm him long ago, That young a soul.But you are pale... What are you feeling? ‘It’s nothing, nanny, not at all.As I to loose my freedom feared Which’s hateful to my own will.I’d like to use the Alban’s model: In Petersburg to show ball.At own billiard with two balls He played from morning one for all.Fare thee well, and if for ever 							Still for ever, fare thee well.To tell you all, what he had known, I haven’t any time at all.As he indifferently could yawn Inside antique or modern hall.For long Tatyana here goes At stylish fascinating cell.He hurries up to live, As well as he does to feel.Behind the mill.The sadness, gladness, love inflaming They all were ready to reveal.The waters Are still.It all is still.First time appeared at the rim Of outlines of my free novel.Her summer shoes quite wet through all; Then she her handkerchief lets fall.About Lensky’s wedding all Were sure neighbours once for all.By deep embarrassment fulfilled She has to stop, she’s standing still.And he returned just to the hall Like Chatsky: from the ship for ball.The rest all gathered at the hail: Of ball the beuaty shines for all.The snowflakes are flashing, whirl, Like stars at river’s banks they fall.Will pass away more fast, they tell, And you will pass the winter well.Importantly repeats for doll The mother’s lessons, though small.They call, And no reason, even gappy, You have for not to come at all.-In front of tenderness quite plain, In front of soul playful, frail...Healthy all...The doubts all confused her soul:But suddenly was changed it all:You listen to my grievous call:She feels herself like all her dear Of books beloved main persons feel:Described for us the snowfall, {l5} The winter’s bliss and tinges all:For theatre Onegin’s speeding. In it each man is free at all:Of younger beauties generation Will follow the journal’s call:Yet being child, at any year Tatyana didn’t play with doll;You see, your Larina is plain, But very dear old soul;Meanwhile small foot in hands l feel;Was not astonished at the dawn To see him coining to his hall;Sometimes himself, not as a rule, Could he entrapped like real fool;The sledge for race is now ready, In it he’s flying to the mill;The first he made - he left you all;And many pages yet are keeping Some sharpened markings by the nail;While she’s by tinsel gown waving In front of her some throng to hail;‘But how are Tatyana, neighbours, And Olga, frisky pretty girl?’Are you the same, or others dared To change, replace you there all?Is being deaf and dumb at all To sad and desperate your call?I — It sparkles by Hippocrene’s role, It was by own play and foamAs well as bees from tasty house With noise are flying for the bloomWhen well have cooled the passions temper And no more they would alarmPrincess, undone yet before himWithout me his time will come, But now let him live in calmAnd smelling dead the horses snort And struggle; they with white wet loamThe driven chairs noise arouse; All throng has rushed to anter-roomHe had of books, as no harm In them he saw, but no charmAlter himFor that a neighbour in his farming Was puffing up: to his big farmWhat’s he? is real imitation From Moscow a spook or whimBut Eugene all the lawsuits hated With lot contented, gave all themOf old Kremlin keys to give; But didn’t come at all to himOr when a worm disdained and deadly Is growing out lily’s stemMay be, the thought to us is coming Amid poetical a dreamPossesses half of world existing Much longer, in the softened loomOr can he see forgotten foes, Some cravens, slanderers, a swarmAnd in his own study silent Remembered times, when after himRousseau (I’d say as if bypassing), Of how dared pompous GrimI saw myself in cherished dreamBut Tanya now like in dreamOf passions press at last escaping, Again Onegin said of themYou sigh not speaking of your will: When will the devil come for him!’My God! what thoughts could come to him!’Forgive, secluded my asylum!Reminiscence of old time, Of maiden’s room!The same I was in time of wisdom,Some boys In boat with its oars rowed Along the sleepy Neva’s stream,And magic poison of its itches; You are pursued by happy dream,Since young Tatyana at some hovel With Eugene, in my hazy dream,And thus my hero grin; At minute, difficult for him,Ah, Olga gave the word to him,A hundred times is blessed, who’s faithful. Who’s got his wit to be quite calm,In stillness of the humble grove Of innocence some charming loom,He did believe, that soul dear Will join enevitably him,Through tears never seeing him,He was beloved.., at least was grateful To have such hope like a balm.But now radiant moon’s ray Is dying out, and some quaky From earth gets out steam.And now sullen, now harmful Ideas trouble late his dream.Like young Lenore under noon With me was riding like a loom.And falsely sings, Applauds and crying Are greeting him.From bed Onegin wasn’t moving, The dream yet flies about him.And trembling state is seen by him; All vexed, he’s being in a whim.Without breath, with timid feeling Tatyana listened then to him.And here is the banns room.That’s what I am.The snow’s rose shining charm; On Christmas evenings hazy calm.They all kibitkas brim-full load. All men and women raise a boom.He offers necessary service And dressing-gown puts on him.Of tortures full, her heart refuges The hopes of her heavy dream.Three houses will wait for him.As sign of friendship’s written in, Continued, lessened for the whim.They harness them in sleighs for road. The breakfast’s ready in the room.Sometimes, when he’s in bed yet sleeping, Some papers they are bringing him.And impulses of virgin dream, And grand simplicity in him.Lord Byron with his whim successful Enveloped fussy egoism In hopeless romanticism.With reason I remembered them.In noise of world and in the still Disturb my soul’s quiet dream.I do remember them; in dream They trouble all my heart, such grim.He’s blessed... But may be she has been Amused by other, not by him.And thus... But what a fool I am I They call you: come next week to them.-Princess is staring at him...What a whim...And I’m afraid: in spite of charm That water brings me much of harm...The Gulnare’s singer imitating Across this Hellespont could swim:And slowly through fields she’s riding, Immersed is deeply in the dream:In country’s place the man of wisdom, He gave his serfs a piece of freedom:On reddish paws a goose, such heavy, To get to waters wants to swim:That she, delightless in the near, Is daily waiting just for him;But saw: annui, the rave, the harm, The fraud; nor shame, nor sense, nor charm;But somewhat pale and rather thin, And yet she’s looking rather slim;Tatyana silently curl lean, Her languid head she bent to him;Because we restlessly disclose Defects; are bustling; judge the whim?- But why you so indisposed Are speaking bad about him?Who never bores us by his charm?She was him asking: For long he's here? Where from?The same yet girl, whom he in whim Neglected then like meek for wisdom?But will it come, my day of freedom?And where everything’s at freedom? The same yet girl... or its a dream?To whom my vice is not a harm?I’ll take a look and then turn’,And whispered her each one of them: ‘You look left side at those men…’Has fallen…What is your name? - He’s looking on, At last he answers: - Aghaphon…Meanwhile he’s dressed for walk at morning, His bolivar he’s having on	{3]With pride for recent fame can glow: Napoleon waited but in vainRooms are cold, In them some hungry but high-flownAll fancy goods for whims abundant Which are supplied by busy LondonAnd got to neighbours in a while. At once they heartily were givenDid try to make of that some fun: The country’s freedom has its ownAnd Tanya hides her agitation, But yet she’s sighing once againNew generations by some reason, At secret will of great provisionLike in van Dick’s Madonna finness, Her face is round, red, she’s boonShe doesn’t say: ‘Let us postpone For multiplying price of ownSome other now drew attention, Some other managed with inventionThe cool debauchery was known As science of the love: its ownBut he at real field of action Himself white raptured by affectionTo her it all seemed rather queer, She all forgot, replaced againMy Moscow... in this lunationByronAnd works again imagination. Again her touch of fascinationLike thoughts of simple lady’s soul, Like dreams of child, or like the moonThen for the babbles due concession To hear of her heart confessionThat on the days I meant above, At feet of ladies fox expressionWhere’s agitation And honourable aspirationAnd secrets of her own heart, Her sacred tears, happy tensionFor hopes; then misunderstanding Well use to break the heart; againOnegin at the first admission To agent of such secret missionIn letters though he againLone in the room In stillness, in the light of moonThat instant I could trunk with reasonOnegin no love could hook in, But listened with a pompous look-inAs quick as canAnd then departures for the way, But asks before for invitationAnd you agree, my dear reader: This time like real gentlemanA simple maidenIt in strainAnd Vertcr, that rebellious martyr, Unimitable GrandisonAll right, by hand unfair ownIts true, he is unknown version, But really he's honest person!’Whose grateful, feeling, truthful hand Will pat the fame of old man!And then was speaking of the same: Of Olga, dear love, again!Go on!What Grandison? Ah, Grandison!Or Baratinsky with his pen,- Let be you birnt by thunder then!Ah, many friends were near then!- Not, then!To me I met sometimes in them! E sempre bene, gentlemen! (37)Or village house - at the pane Is sitting she.., and she again!,.His wish to sacrifice his fate; But for the end (to make impression)Are kissing, tenderly press hands, They flop her curls up to the fashion,Onegin is deep sleep just having; The sun is now high in heaven,-Let’s go.- They were quietly driven,But then, the love of tender beauties More trusty is than friendship, kin,He didn’t want by any way But by the rules of artful fashion,But when to country comes the evening The billiard, cues are left again,At twenty dandy was with brain, At thirty married was with gain,In France of cooking highest gauge; And pie train Strassburg, freshly driven,In open light dress comes out, At moon her mirror’s aiming down,Behind accacias, bird cherries From storms is hidden in his den,He joked in a funny manner, Could fool an idiot for fun,He looked for girls without passion And left them all with none compassion,If that Fillidae you can show, The subject for the pen to mourn,Grandfathers to the tombs do press, It comes, the time of exitation,Are troubled house-spirit gangs; Onegin’s eyes make tire own,He’s now languished by remorse, He’s being ready to beg pardon,Who has ideas and is living, He looks at people with disdain,His servant Guillot from France, is running in,As real expert does by chance. He could be silent in discussion,He left with real consolation Of woods and valleys isolation,All those changes. All the more He, full of jealous indignation,And you have right to it, not duties, Among rebellious storms, I mean,He sang of love, for love was loyal, His song was clear like the noon,All envied by the hard, yet living! In worldly storms - of life oblivion,Because she’s innocent and plain,Or kind of madcap; sad a version Of some Satanic ugly person,With dear Tanya he was eager Himself to show honest man,She was the works in fields observing, She salted mushrooms, punished men,Some meadows and fields extended; Somewhere villages were seen,Regret, resentment, being sorry, Some pure love to every boon,The monument in words explains Submissive sinner, Dimitry Larin,Across the pits the sleigh is speeding, Is passing by the stalls, the women,At brook the monument is seeing She’s drawing made of leather rein,But in a while I had been used To caustic, hot argumentation,(For him to hide was very easy By riding stallion from the Don,When we shall gather under banner Of stillness, rational and cairn,And fugitive of world and people, For stylish beauties stylish man,The hawkers walk, gets up the salesman, Is dragging to cabstand a cabman,He thought: a fool would trouble his Such quickly fading high affection,And didn’t frighten anyone By natural vividness and fun,Like prisoner from any chain Is ready to escape again,You write the odes, gentlemen,Is time: all good but lazy-bone Epicurean wise all men,And you, my youthful inspiration, Disturb my weak imagination,If by the family best vision For instant I’d be charmed with reason,-And suddenly my Lensky enters, With hire Onegin.But was delayed for short a while As they had no rings of fashion.Great charm to any conversation.Well, I saluted classicism! It’s late, but preface has been seen.But blessed by God of inspiration Another one in. rhymes of fashion.At early morning comes for meeting With lone canopy again.My Vanny Was younger, than myself I mean, And I was, dear, yet thirteen.Onegin.Where we have never been.Tatyana’s letter to Onegin.To touch in splendid admiration.His wig yet smoothing by his hand Of her inquires old man.Nor tubes of stylish expert-men From stalls and boxes ever then.On table Eugene found then For funeral prepared man.In proud, touching inflammation Is blushing crimson.A menu hangs for order’s sake And teases appetite in vain.And into sweet and sinless dream By soul he was getting in.Of bold children’s secret meetings That near lime at brook began.But often passions were invading The mind of hermits, of my men.For centures to make him known.Presents his friend and distant kin.The halls enormous is all then trembled, The parquet’s cracks wee heard again.Came in.He liked the stillness, lone mood, The night, the stars, the round moon.The fate and life in their turn To their judgement could return.At first they’d nothing seen In common.To them He paid his all attention then.Have been decayed in nature’s train Like leaves in autumn, full of rain.Around ladies dark a frame Of gaping, like at pictures, men.But all the same, the hope them With baby-talk is lying then.To-day they wish to make each lady To read in Russian.By bondage Lensky’s fascinated, Gave up his soul to the fun.Some sweetish torture of the glory His blood excited very soon.I can foresee: you’ll be abused By sad and secret explanation.But hero, I’m not wrong, Could never be like Grandison.Of whom they spoke till the end: N.N. is excellent a man.Are snow-bound by the storm. In depth of snow are forlorn.She kept her manners quite the same, Was quiet bow her again.And sheds of tears stilly stream, Her cheek on hand she has to lean.And always turned, from us - I mean. That their looks give rise for spleen.By spite of fortune and of mean, While both were beginners then.Unmoving, lone he’s again.The head of Chaldean wise men, — Of dreams the fortune-teller then.Some youthful lover ran again Behind the fuss, but all in vain.And christened world will have the will To build per station own inn.The balconies; with lions gate, While on the crosses jackdaws reign.By Olga’s hand the tea’s been pouring To little cup of guest adoring By dark and sweetly scenting stream; A boy already brings the cream; At window Tatyana’s standing, She’s breathing at the cooling glass And lost in thought quite deep and vast With pretty finger she is melting On misted window’s cool pane Her pattern O.E. again.Before the fight to be invited... At watch, the sun he’s looking on...And I’m in family unknown...I’m unknown...I dread to read again...Is spoiled by old duels fan, He’s evil, gossip, talking man...On table’s hissing yet, forlorn...In shade of two pine-trees quite old; Inscription can to you explain:Alas! I must repeat again:New Regulus (of honour God) Anew he could the bonds abandon:To grammar will subdue us all, To verse will pay too much attention:In general he gave them hell, But any rule has some exception:A pedant but of science man. He had a happy talent then:He quickly sleepy was from them, And grasped all clearly by then:But Nazon was by world denied And suffered past rebellious session:In them I’ll write of simple speeches Of dad, of uncle, old man:Enough... and has been done the burden:Of partings, jealous indignation, Of tears of conciliation;In thoughts her face too pale he found, She often seemed to be cast down;To call Anisya children go, To take the keys from porch they ran;Some days was crying, then was trying To get divorce from newly man;Nor sharpness, nor some sign of mind, Nor of communal life succession;From everything to me legated, I had my heart for ever torn;By cunning husband he was greeted, Of Faublas previous a fan;Unwittingly, you see, the lives Confuse yet me with incarnation;He, might be, for the world’s welfare Or even for the fame was born;Was languishing and taciturn, Eloquent ardently in turn;And then I thought: He’s now in;Unwittingly in mirror’s peeping Ashamed to recognize: he’s beaten;-it’s right, but may be you will show The pipe, the dagger and the man;Some grove, hamlet under hill, Behind the river sees a garden;Will never tremble their hand To beat the slander off a man;For epigrams was always greedy With everything quite cross a Dan;With Lea, that’s given him too sweety; With ladies’ flatness; tunes of men;For thoughtful singing with attention?’And what’s the reason?And is it true, it can’t return?If their district visits on?Because her love is not of fashion, Obedient to the call of passion?For you the glory and the laud, The father’s land, incarceration?In Harold cloak, hat with brim, Or other whims interpretation?Onegin’s fixing eyes upon; Where are compassions, perturbation?‘Whith Olga what could happen?What’s my Onegin?Like tiresome a rank of ghosts, In face has loftiness or spleen?What for yet here has he been?Of girls, which never had that sin As they are only thirteen?And am I soon at thirties turn?‘Shall go forth or should return?..‘No’.Or, like in fever, can he get A touch of hand, or helps to goOn steps of world the bard might goAndryushka, quicker must you go!Nomadic life to better know, Herself with them could wild she go,I was his friend some while ago.To be with you I cannot go...But it is late, it’s time to go...To dissipate her greatest woe	 Judicious husband had a go:Annette; And on the last one you read so:Some minutes they were silent both, Onegin then to her came upNot a word can slipWay is endless To bed from ballet; half asleepTo it headlong in simple coach Onegin now has sped upis going, and when she’s trying To turn aside... is coming upAnd God forbid at evening party Or after ball, at porch, on stepI stop!With him my cousin first Buyánov, All fuzzy, wears peaky cap,At window by books in heap, By bed with carpet, chairs, whip,By instant cool is all filled up To him Onegin hurries up,Princess Helena has for ages The same of tulle well made night cap,He’s happy now just to throw On shoulders her fluffy wrap,For merry dispute he was able To be in answers dull or sharp,She doesn’t see that day is breaking. She sits in bed with hanging head And on her letter isn’t pressing Her well cut out round stamp.In slow gait, quite fast and smoothly Have come the fourth already step.To meet a student while departing, Or scholar wearing night cap.On saucers jam they gave, and seldom Some berry water in a jug Put on a table, and a cup.Onegin, standing up, At window it all read up.All that I don’t grasp.A need for sleep.But dangerous for the maiden’s heart) Quite reddenning he’s missing up.In all her charms, to steppes yet bound, I can with jealous shyness poop.To other things let’s make approach: For ballet we shall hurry up.He’s rumbling, quickly he gets up, For door he nears, ail got up.At usual hour stirred up, In candle’s light she’s getting up.But suddenly her eyelids close, She hasitates to make a step..,They bark and laugh, they whistle, clap, They sing and speak, like horses stamp:I’ve read it up:In them you can’t see any changes, They keep in patterns old gap:She runs for forest... he’s about; The flabby snow is knee-deep;By love her grief to lull to sleep, Some uhlan could her flattered keep;Tatyana poor is in heat; in bed she never falls asleep;Yet some of weary men-servants At entrance on fur-coals sleep;But shall I fall by shaft through pierced Or will it pass beside, will slip?For tears, rhymes and so on?… Present me her’.‘What slow-witted you are, nyanya!’ -I’m old, dear friend of heart, My wit is now fading, Tanya: But long ago I was smart: By word of barin’s will I’d rather…-Amusements or for dreams a nook, Some thoughts for heart, for journal’s clamourAnd when sometimes in front of herAll they utterAway had passed his old father, Onegin was attacked by ratherAnd when a falling shining star‘I’ll be defender; I’ll not endure when offenderAnd young a woman, city dweller All summer in the country spenderEvery country eaterIn order that derisive reader, Or any editor, too eagerMartin Zadeka then became The pet of Tanya, and foreverThe maidens tried to pass by quiet In front of tier through hall; and higherIt’s late, the time has gone; his letter To rue was brought; the whole matterThey nowhere turned to her Lornettes of jealous ladies dearYou’ll fall in love once more and find… You learn to rule yourself: I fearHorAnd who would look for maiden tender In this majestic casual mannerIn front of flaming fire-place Was Benedetta purring fairOf theatre strict legislator, Inconstant adorer of laterOf Russian Terpsichore’s dearHer tender fingers didn’t dare To take a needle; she could neverIs cunning liric, who can renderTo have half-Russian neighbour dear; As quickly as he can appearShe tried her corset tight to wear, And Russian “н” in French best mannerBut then your horse will try in fearMy poets! I’d like to hear If I am right; the ladies dearWere full of liberty his views And soul. Ardent, somewhat queerThe frames were shaking, trembling there But nowadays the men, like fairTanya, near!Let’s go, do thorn such a favour!It’s time, its time to marry her!‘And happiness was not unlikely, And so near!-Just solemn odes you could hear!And you forgive, my freedom later!But other times in mind I bear!If not... if not, let God deliver!-What said the satirist, remember!You first of alt must love yourself, My dear venerable reader!Goodness me, it isn’t For him to hear!Tatyana, ah, Tatyana dear!But crosses bridge; her helping her: She runs… the bear’s after her!You are in heat.- - But I’m not ill Well... nanny, I’m in love, I feel.., - God bless you now, dear daughter! -‘Lord! to her!..It’s winter!..When suddenly from village rear He could some droshky’s sounds hear),He slept and coffee had he here, His menager’s reports could hear,Like Julie’s lovers, grand Wollmar, Malek-Adel and De Linar,He writes of all that he can hear Or see of Olga in the near,Then bring to Doonya some guitar,And saying so, made he dry A glass to health of dear neighbour,The aunts are winking one to other And pushed my Tanya quickly rather,I didn’t dare to believe: Cave no start to habits dear,And leaning mutely on the door Is writing elegies for her,And drop some tears twice or thrice; They needed kvass not less than air,He died at hour of dinner, Bermoned by his neighbours dear,And after rather tedious dinner, When I, refreshing own inner,You listen but without anger: With time young girl will change her temper,‘But I’d prefer another,Along the darkish sky is flying To scatter in the sky afar,Onegin’s now free from care. In fashion has he cut his hair,Of Jouvenale to talk much better, To end with vale own letter,But She whom I yet don’t dare To trouble with my lyre fair,The same is dog, the same’s her man Which is of club the loyal number,It caught him now and for ever; But yet to kill himself he never,They had a fasting twice a year, They liked of round swing high gear,In pocket he, as Frenchman real, Has brought for his Tatyana dear,His look was always quick and tender,His illness never was distinguished From illness, known so far,To read... but thoughts yet make him wonder His heart is sad but doesn’t slumber,My disillusioned lornette, Of joy some careless spectator,When sees: a hunter from afar At him is looking so far,All’s filled by Him, by image dear, And magic force, that she can hear,‘But then... or it not true?.. in desert, From fussy rumours being far,My reader, well he now leaving For long, for ever.In wadded jacket and kerchief The old woman with grey hair.The wish of heart to whisper her.Each day she whispers own myths Of letter to her image dear.It’s getting dark; already, shining, Is hissing evening samovar, It heats the tea-pot, brought from China; Light steam is whirling so far.The time of day by tea or dinner, Or supper.And Olga’s yawning; round here She’s looking for her Lensky dear.And of Onegin, far from here, Her heart reminds much more to her.To part Eke friend, but real, eager.Without answer.Monsieur Triquet is on the floor, In jersey, capped, not far from door.Field is clear In moonlight all it seems like silver.And in addition gave to them Collection of plain fables then, With them two Pentads, a grammar.All have the supper.The men all bowed her more eager And tried to catch the eyes of her.‘Of them my Olga is the younger.To answer her.What blunder! I’m a punished ranger.Such charming, tender.Onegin’s sitting at the board By stealth is looking at the door.But let me help with sacred water.In early spring of every year.He opened a door."Well dressed, she’s waiting for her chance, But came to Olga her adorer.,.You now come to rooms, the inner...Some other...- To pour half-glass you do a favour...Of bard the memory itself Like smoke at blue sky is rather...But no answer...D’you see, in front of that small group The two, the uniforms they wear...Enough, my dear...She’s not astonished, hasn’t anger...The day had gone, but no answer...My God, a scene from novels dear...’ -And that’s my daughter...All flows in a single gear...With blood sustained each pure hand... They’d bel.ter part in friendly manner...Prepare ruins once for ever...She’s up at once, Like shade she’s pale, but no answer...What shall I do, I can’t foresee; The same she says to all but sharper:And. told her:But all his journeys and the trips, Like all in world, began to bother:But it’s enough to speak of her:Of Giaour, Juan famous singer, With him some more two-three might linger:Tatyana hadn’t any trends To play with them in any weather:A jug for apple juice he took, An old calendar in order:And asks him stilly, sweetly sighs More tenderer than reed-pipe dear:Each name from France by Russian name, Forgot princess Alina dear;You all my slipshod stanzas here: For recollections restless dear;You give a pen and paper, dear, I’ll stay in bed; make table near;Of dawn the ray all crimson sparkles And Olga opens the door;Night sentries, far from one to other, In stillness called each one another;That he’s the head - it all is clear And Tanya has much less of fear;He’s not been seen, none word from dear;With her he’s ever in her chamber Until the daylight turns more fainter;The novels were for many years Her inner life, were liked by her;All satisfied at feast by dinner The neighbours puff in room, the inner;The ladies tried to her to near; The old women smiled on her;That he at love such timid, tender Last evening joked like offender;Of family; not married yet; A real friend, a landlord, ripper;Without purpose or a spite Would not repeat for days in error;D’you hear?‘Well, dear me, what is the matter?Shall I again your chorus hear?The neighbour... order to your guy: Not say a word he must be ready, By no means to call my name!’… -To whom, my dear?In happy heat on moral lecture By chance could give her like preceptor?Where is it better?‘Tanya though!’ ‘D’you know her?-Not any man can grasp such things; Ignorance many troubles brings’‘But trouble is: they are such bores’.As well as ruddy foolish moon At the horizon’s foolish brightness’.-In this I see yet no troubles…At people looks she, never smirking, Without imitating tricks…When we for better education Will widen more all needed framesWith him was always on the bends: His enemies as well as friendsBut aim of looks and talks on whole That time at feast are fatty piesAnd make some rainbows on snow. By lampions dotted from the sidesThe snow’s crackling... someone’s near... On her tiptoe fast she fliesWhile people yawn in church at prayer, To find a bunch of praying grassIn songs could proudly retain For all his life exalted passionsSome several miles from Krasnogóry, From Lensky’s village, there livesAt sister Tanya isn’t looking; She lies in bed; a book she hasPolite; with sharp-clawed paw he’s rapping Her hand to offer help; she bendsAnd sadly shedding hitter tears To part with Olga mother nearsAnd Tatyana’s nervousShe’s getting up with rays of morning, At once she hurries to the fieldsThe heaven’s bodies beam and shine. The bushes, chutes without boundsOf British muse some old fables Her dreams disturb, and it enablesThe moon, this miracle in heavens, To which we dedicated nightsWith dear muse of mine capricious Let’s hear forest’s noise deliciousA lot of pretty loving rot; He it declaims; the sound flowsOr aren’t we glad to see returning Of perished in the autumn leavesIs sad of passions dead a track; This way the storms of autumn coolnessNor foreign beauties so fine, Nor sciences, nor evening partiesAt her to gaze he was assidious, But no tracks of Tanya previousTomb-stone is gloomy, Is lost, and last of feet the printsIs it because in higher circlesFrom bed to icy bath had fallen And afterwards was whole daysThe dreams: fir-trees, the hag, the bores, The East, the bear, snow-stormsSome files of steel for nails, some combs, Some scissors, straight and wry: he ownsTo be Napoleon each wishes, But millions of the two-legged creaturesTo-day frivolous generation Matures, stirs, already testsAnd him repentance badly nags; This inspiration often addsThat all the best and sacred wishes,	 And all the fresh and pure dreamingsInstead of praise he gets yet griefs: Alone under Finnish heavensIn duels classic, pedant crossShe’s deaf for greetings of the friends; To hide her tears quickly bendsBut what Tatyana could he thinking When recognized among the guestsA monk in black by chance appears, Or quick a hare in the fieldsHe found house full of servants; To see deceased, from any sidesDid happen any bard in tears To deer love to read with fearsDevoted to lazy feeling, With void in soul, he resstrainsAnd glory of the old starts, And panting dreams of all young heartsWhich doesn’t pity any things, In front of which the life yet isAt first two days anew he drove Along secluded lone fieldsHer easy dreams by other dreams; As well as trees can change the leavesSome other, cool and cold dreams. Some other, more severe issuesBlue smoke rises to the sky, And thorough German baker goesHe, touching witness, captivated By childish prettiness of gamesI keep in mind the sea, quite stormy: What envious I was when wavesBut in gloomy cliffsIn them reflects the whole age And modem man of nowadaysSome wrong and wry neglectful babble Of mispronouncing of wordsAt rocks of the Caucasian districtsTriumphant is and gladly shines, Is boring me, makes suffer tormentsAlas! On furrows of livesHis pistol then Onegin raisesThe lanterns, children, many shops, A palace, gardens, cloisters, flocksWe’ll be like invalid in hut, Who nears ears to confessionsWho listens to the same objections And bans the thoughts of wrong reflectionsSeverity instead of kindness; Indeed, for you was neither tidingsBut then, amused by idle dreamings, Attended to my better feelingsAnd she forgot the speech of gods For scant and queer lots and lotsAt her much frightened loud criesSome big and shaggy bear comes .. Tatyana: ‘Ah!’ But he becomesOf ill princess the joy, caresses Are touching Tanya, but she feelsWhy not? It’s pleasant and sonorous; With it, I know, always goesAnd like with friends, for long well known, With all the meadows and grovesTatyana took advice of nanny; As she in bath-room had to guessFor fantoms I my eyelids closed; But some remote dear hopesIn young sad soul’s aspirations; And yet much more with dismal passionsImmense and light, at distance waiting; Through glasses old people guessBut can’t: through door her Eugene enters; In front of eyes of Hades’ spectresHe was a common Russian barin, Was kind and good; at his remainsIndeed, by magnetism’s all forces The mechanism of Russian versesFrom saucers, filled with clear waters Some rings get out as on trottersBut people! all you are alike Your ancestor, called Eve, foremother: What’s given, hardly it involves, But constantly the Dragon callsSome tears shed at urn my early: ‘He tell in love with me,’ to thinksIndeed, he’s blessed, the lover tranquil, Who can explain his own dreamsLet give the God his soul chancesHis style to pompous tune rerversing An ardent author tried sometimesBut as soon as in charms of dreaming He lost himself - his neighbour comesYou never stamped your small foot-prints. You liked smooth carperts of some printsOf ladies well-considered dress. I love girls feet. But it’s a stressLike Byron, poet of grace. Or it’s impossible or faithlessBut where are you? Come! My rightsFor noise, for storms, for many feasts, For everything! For all your giftsThe seasons country viewsHe cast a glance at ladies’ tires, At circles but with looks, attiresIt happened: late at time of leisures Two girl-friends, both yet teen-agersYou take my set of florid rhymesPerhaps, in front of portrait famous, To people future ignoramousIn spite of Foebus warning notes Myself I’ll humble to the prose, When novels in the old waysHe kept me often in his hands, While I could show many pranksWas able any glimpse of sweetness, Of vergin years bias giftnessOf agitated soul’s feelingsBut even such a friendship, readers, We haven’t now; each of usBut where now through them speedsThat time to all my childish dreamsBut now, friends, from all my sides -‘And I your ears pulled by hands!’I was taking you in hands!Inspired, I again shall feel you, Your magic voice for me awaits!By sorcery of story’s secrets!With what a lively fascination Deludes herself with all deceits!But you forgive him, games in stillness!O , rus!My greetings!Brothers!The foes!Ruslan’s, Lyudmila’s friends!And he inspired her at dawns!Of higher world the queer ladies!Ooh! What encirclement she has Of christening coldness, princess!To honest people he belongs: This way the century reforms!‘Bordeaux’ all the times!And let them God long live for us!At window alone, sad (Diana’s ray lights up, her wakens)And early ringing of the bells (Precursor of the morning works)‘Sed alia temporal’ But rudeness (Like dream of love, the prank of goodness)And near it (when it is raining In spring on corns of near fields),‘Well, let us go…’ Prince then nears His own wife (and she them hears),(As well as in the old years In time of mine and time of yours),-Says yes or no, never да-с Or нет-с’(the words, they all would pass).Confess; we have the taste quite mere In life, as well as in the names,The horse for rider proved obedience, The dinner rather well fastidious,I had happened To know many old legends,Of proud ladies yet she slips, She now looks, but stilly sits,Meanwhile Onegin’s stay at Larin’s Was estimated like a news,But by your narrow small tracks,With fragrant, all grey-haired head An old man said old jokes,To show his beloved main person As perfect one for all the times,She opened the feasts In it And praised devices of the chillness,He hasn’t any fascinations, But has some snake of recollections,To them, to their senseless feasts She brought her fine and dear gifts,He sang of partings and of griefs, Of something, foggy misbeliefs,Of beauties light and fine attires, Of people variegated choirs,She falls on snow - he is swifty: He’s taking her in paws and brings,-I hate your world of fashion marbles, Much more I like the world indoors,But jingle of the spurs he hears, Tatyana’s husband just appears,The same, from whom he now keeps A letter, where heart her speaks,‘Forgive me, ever peaceful valleys, Hill peaks well known under heavens,And like the Beccant could she gamble, With bowl sang she for the guests,In sledge he’s sitting now. -Away, away! - the driver marks,Submissive to the natural passion Invite to them, become her friends,Of rhymes the fever: he could double Of poetry sacred scraps,Arrival slow of the guests In front of hostess young brightness,Admires all the noisy tightness, The flash of dresses and of words,But doesn’t lade the heat of cheeks, And brighter, strickingly it heats,But that’s more wonderful and dreadful: A crayfish on a spider rides,Apostate of wild enjoyments,For her cotillion now seems Like long and heavy dreadful dreams,Engaged alone with accounts; Or, taking cue like somewhat armours,In spring at grass and so forth, At iron fire-place in winters,The spurs of horse-guards-man are jingling, Each foot of pretty ladies flies,That time in sacramental valleys, At cries of swans, of spring endeavours,Of course, Onegin’s not alone, Who saw her disarray in eyes,He aimlessly began to wander, With passions only agrees,Meanwhile some two or three of pages (Some idle gibberish or fables,Of looking back she doesn’t dare And hurries up, she’s quickening steps,In fruitless speeches drily fuse inquiries, some gossips, news,(At season, which is called meanwhile The time of wolf and dog for meetings,By his anwaited apparition, By instant tenderness of eyes,Be quick, my friends! the field invites. In carts with weights of food, attires,The time revengeful now nears, In secret Eugene gaily sneers,The world with smile my muse was electing, The first success lent wings for us,Zhizhi, my soul’s crystal first, The subject of naive my passes,At sea to hear for a while Of nereid unceasing whispers,(In times, by thorough foundation Of philosophical best rates,I’m greatful for the good enjoyments, For sadness, for the pretty torments,This noise, the lustre and the crooks, For wild a garden, shelves of books,That she is good, dull husband knows But at has fate he curses throws,He liked the grove’s timid thickness,Yet child, by Olga fascinated, Ignorant yet of hearty pains,And now Tanya is alone Alas! for long-time friend she sighs,When some respiended dear lady To give in quatro me yet tries,By fate all counted my days, All painful are they nowadays,Of world conventions breaking load Like he I lagged behind of fuss,And now in my garden small She came at once as district mistress,Each box in theatre is shining, In pit each stall already boils,Oh, Brenta! I again shall see you. My dear Adriatic waves,Maidens dear, beautiful, We are mates in friendliness,By happy force of own dreamings She brings to life all novel’s beings,Whom don’t bore the falseful fears, The prayers, swears, threats and hints,In country tedium’s prevailing Without palaces or streets,Alone you, to speak my mind, I’d take as friend of days my grievous,Of mind some cold observations,His own tender verse he leaves Like monument to his affections,In which yet streams the clear brook, To flowers, to all the novels,Of saint fulfilled generous dreams,Love-letter secrets on six sheets, The fraud, the gossip, rings, the tears,Through tight a row of the grandeurs, Of diplomats, of army dandies,Her way is crossing, then she feels Herself embarrased; and of tears,Slipshod result of my pastimes,The former foe of the orders, The waster, Eugene of the lands,Of sleepless nights, of inspirations,They are alone far from people, Are playing at the board of chess,In coolness of the gloomy grove With purl and babble of still streams,I never wished with such a torture To kiss young Armid’s pretty lips,Do not reflect Diana’s features, Recalling bygone novel’s creatures,From glass not stopping For a while’. He never kisses hands of ladies,But she’s neglectful to the singing, To ringing voices of the maids,The dreams, not bound with this day, The threats, the talkings and predictions,The panes with patterns are like marvel, By snow flocks are covered trees,All poets, meanwhile I’ll note, Of dreamy, pensive love are friends,May be, you rose from the clans In those places, or have dears,But when the nurse in summer gathered To Olga all her little friends,She waits impatiently for feeling That hearty tremble now fades,By writing verse, the dismal mourner Of parents, with running eyes,The boulevards, cossacks and the butts, Drug-stores and towers, the garments,Of Buchars, sledges, kitchen-gardens, The merchants, peasants arid the huts,With grievous noise became all naked, The tog was falling on the fields,She likes the order, well-composed, Of oligarchial the chats,The chairs, saucepans and the trunks, The matresses and jams in jars,The fright of shame, of evil word? Where are you, cherished happy dreamings,Sometimes with pretty girl a meeting, A young and fresh unwaited kiss,This Russian family seems light, To all the guests it’s always zealous,The eyes are blue as depth of heavens, The smile, the flaxen curls of hairs,At any place there are some chambers, Of damask are in rooms wallpapers,The less we love a pretty woman, The easier she’s liking us,Monotonous and sometimes yet senseless, Like whirlwind of the youthful lives,Then hoofs, wry trunks, it let alone The tufted tails, the fangs in mugs,All innocent the talkings flow; With lie they beautify some things,The first in life the stormy passions, And they give birth to new impressions,With one of feet the floor she’s touching, With other slowly she wheels,All us, well laugh at their impulse, At late ridiculous opinions,They all began to guess of reasons, Invented stealthily decisions,(If I had right for some decisions) I would prefer to slighting feelings,She’s stuffy here... In her dreams Transfers for life among the fields,Would come together at week-ends, Unceremonious dear friends,Or am I stranger to enjoyments, To all that gladdens and revives,She doesn’t listen to the guests And curses their idle leisures,Its sad to think, indeed, that vainly The youth was given to all us,He brought from Germany his dear, As poet, of learning fruits,At. fifty who was liberated From private and from other debts,Who’s helpfully for us adjusting His own deeds and when he prays,Ah, you, whose memory will fuse In verse my flying feeble dealings,The Pans of the district girls, With Olga Petushkóv then whirls,And -now she with great attention Voluptuous novels quickly reads,Sometimes of him in midnight hazes, Untill yet Morpheus, she believes,Was impudent and shy; sometimes Could show how tear shines,And there, in the shades of links, My younger days were rushing things,Who father’s money never trusts To cunning friends, to crufty cards,Maliciously discuss with smiles: If I was sharp or dull in lies,You all indifferent, lucky, prone Of Levshin school the pupils, fans,With narrow and long wine-glasses, Reminding slander waist of yours,A sound sleep, the walks, the reading. The forest shade, of brooks the hiss, -To Moscow, they need good things.’..,Like North Aurora’s face of her, And like a butterfly she flutters.At Lensky Eugene looks quite forceless.Derzhavin old us was greeting, To tomb descending blessed he us.Smoke From pipes to chimney flies.A mute reproach, begging looks, - All that she grasps.The portraits of the tsars on walls, And motley tiles on stoves.Of others victories and own The pranks, the hopes and the dreams.Of lofty thoughts, of simple things.Has own place to have a rest, From porch to maiden’s.I was in love with it sometimes, But soon was bored by pretty creatures.In pride they were with males indifferent. At distance stayed from praise and sighs.Tatyana trusted legend’s fancies Of simple folk’s old times.But liked the spirit of his judging, Judicious talks of that and this.She parts with woman, house keeping, Behind the gates.Eloquent man, by him invited, Triumphantly the answer trails.Quite badly at unknown places, Accustomed to her chamber, fields.A shepherd bast gay sandal’s making, Of fishers from the Volga sings.By him were left at your employments.Among the servants-maids-teenagers.Rather well The grove sleeps.And no brow moved she rasher; She didn’t even lips her press.The time for strolles, much inspired, And all seductive, tempting nights.Perfections yours make speech my gappy, Of them I’m not yet worthy, miss.All servants gathered at the gate To part with barins.For us are only some tools, And all ones passionate are fools.Of known ladies feet and legs.To you	give with my endeavours And bows.The one was Eugene in these deserts, Who could evaluate his gifts.To have remorse I haven’t forces; Like Bogdanovich’s all verses I’d like all dear gallicisrns, As well as previous youthful sins.To meet princess.Some foreign words, she often writes.In heaps, forgotten in the streets.The cool of humble pride composed, Of ages medley and of ranks.And of the world new lustre, noise Fulfilled his wit with future joys.And dreams as well as cartomancies, The moons predictions in the skies.His friends arrived like vile observers Who come to funerals all times.In country lyre is more ringing, More vivid are creative dreams.By eager enmity exited Vladimir for the answer waits.And semicircle wide of brides,- All that at once one’s feelings strikes.Along unfinished rhymes of words No girl’s small feet and no heads.Quite charming actresses, he is An honoured cityzen of links.It shows traceries affective, Informs of mind’s the secret backs.He, dandy in his prime, approves All Kant’s ideas and his moves.Her husband comes.Remembered, though with mistakes, Two little verses of Enaid’s.In deserts of the heaven’s districts, The goddess of the sighs and secrets.It seems to him like something awful To her remind all evening gaps.But with Tatyana shan’t we guess.On chest he puts his hand, unfortunate, And falls.‘For the sake of goodness, You keep the eclog, now useless.Necker 					The morality is 					In the nature of things.-I’m glad. - ‘but when?’ -Well, now just, They will receive with pleasure us.It hurts, he laughs, through window-panes At him his mother’s finger shakes.And I was proud among friends Of new she-friend with windy trends.For pranks reproved with gentle talks, To Summer Garden took for walks.Some loss in all the song’s refrains: The song of cat is best for maids.Can know time without fuss: The stomach is the watch for us.And no hope!... full of sadness, He now curses own madness.At inner room a cry just bangs: Princess is ill in bed, but fusses.For all his thoughts it was a passage - Unusual tongue of maiden’s dreams.Decided is.Some cold wind just blows.Her maiden’s mirror yet she keeps.Nor ballets, cards, nor verse one meets.Themselves to show making booms, To gleam, to charm, to fly to troops.All days I spent in sleep, in shades, And there had my happiest days.With age to argue is unfitness; The custom’s despot of the males.The novelty with ages smacks.Onegin, friend of mine for years, Was born on Neva-river’s banks.For them to love yet meant to grieve, To scare males was joy for ages.The yawnings, other cold things He never saw in any dreams.Conditionally by its charms Self-willed desires it alarms.And I - with sighing I confess - Am dangling after her much less.And boring pictures’ row, done In style of La Fontaine’s sweet novels.La morale est dans 					la natura des choses.That dream aroused her misgivings.Will take the twilight of my days.Of daily troubles.The vice, that’s gentle but not feeble, In novels now celebrates.My Tanya’s hugged by their daughters.In village, in forgotten stillness Of you I’d never know, thus I wouldn’t know tortures sleepless.Yes! just indifferent oblivion Behind the grave for all us waits.Upholsterers inspected, painted Renewed the old closed sleighs.At clear morning he is leaving, In sledge along the river flies.With mill Zaretsky has been dealing: Mill-stones he investigates.Each claps.With brilliant Voronskaya Nina, Of Nova Cleopatra this.Of yard boys family just flies.It’s dark in valleys.For teeth the brushes, and for nails, Some thirty kinds for all avails.For coddled sense the best of pleasures: Perfume in bottles of cut glass.You’ll find some vowes to the dear To love her until dying days.My muse new person just reveals.It lies like carpets, white and waving, Among the fields, around hills.The surely we may her min Among the nets of tempting fuss.To each grandparent to show Her lazyness dispersed for days.Are shut the shutters, limed are flirted The windows.At window she now sits.In all of them restriction’s queer; Antiquity the old backs.At foggy rivers And hills the moon just dasappears.The waltz is whirling; noisy, taintless, A couple after couple flies.Comes up to Olga: several jests, And they are whirling near guests.The talkative my lyre’s tired To glorify all haughty ranks.And, covered with the frosted gown, His beaver collar now sparks.Without prejudice considers The others oils but us as ones.Like long before make heart my tremble And all my soul always flirts.This news Tatyana quickly hears.Unwittingly may bore by image Of its monotonous naked hues.At other kinds of lines.Gets out, asks for own horse And rides.Amusing idle gaze, all miles Are glimpsing like a fence in eyes.I’d cheer up imagination By picture where love yet strives.Departuring date again's belated And can yet run the last of dates.By own or by post-chase You get away from city gates.In eyes with dismal thought of brains, Arid with a book in French in hands.With all the fame of red high heels, With grand, magestic old wigs.His lunch him answered with politeness.You may become a man of business And think of beauty of the nails.Appeared-vanished quickly rather, We gee, but don’t we. confess.My Lensky on the dam is leaning, For them impatiently he waits.In turn to girl were all returning With love to feet to lay themselves.Eight years did he kill these ways, And thus he lost of prime young days.With fire in the drooping eyes, Unwittingly she slightly smiles.Tatyana steeps.But talk of their dear wives By absent wit him always strikes.It could be known by the nurse But slow-witted all she was.Of boasting moustached young guards Who conquered pretty ladies’ hearts.Forgot the town and the friends, And boredom of the festive blends.A plain inscription, then she tries To stop the dim in tender eyes.All are amazed, my Lensky sighs, Does not believe his own eyes.By worst of modes: modern fuss, Which is a tyrant for us.And even nonsense having joys This idle world each time avoids.Is waiting for the end of dance, And for cotillion her invites.And many verses, jokes, whims, And arguments, and merry dreams.Quite mutely for herself she keeps, Of them to nobody speaks.We all were taken by the dreams, As if young life anew begins.For us fine Hymen now makes And maybe yet for many days.My Friends, you know, what it means: With friend of mine I’ve shooting things.‘At fire-place Alone barin sat for days.With many senses all this fuss, Which is antique for all of us.She makes her figure twine and twist, With quick her foot the foot she beats.Sometimes allured is for days: With love the Satan jokes makes.Unknown in the thick of grass To bees, to moths at no paths.May be, you saw at Neva’s banks Some ladies of these queer ranks.But now dear moon for us Is mere lantern in the skies.He comforts her in all her griefs And constantly with her he sleeps.Philosopher among his mates With them his room he decorates.Through roar of fiddles never thrives The jealous whisper of styled wives.The men confront. All cross in peace. The throng, all humming, takes the seats.Appear profiles of heads Of ladies and of fashion cranks.She’s always bored by loud laughs By noise of their playful muffs.Grand treaty’s ditties exercise; The foes stand and drop the eyes.Convert the meadows to pools And bare, leafless make the woods.I know: Parny’s tender rhymes Make no hit at present times.Can’t wash her arms, her breast and face: Afraid she is of winter ways.Good guy and sergeant of the guards, This Grandison could play the cards.Through thickened crowd of the guests, Or handkerchief picks up with jests.And he invents by whim’s requests Caricatures of the guests.Arose noise at parting grades: They bring from stables eighteen jades.At smooth of parquets in the halls, At sea on granite and at malls.But shall I see you?’ - Tanya cries And sheds the tears from her eyes.Or Idol mio; dropped by chance On fire journals or his pumps.At table each of dear guests Had course according to the ranks.Enough the boredom on the ways: The journey took them seven days.In paper cap for each of us To open his wasistdas.He’ll never hear hymn of times, The blessing of the future tribes.Onegin’s coining with excuses.‘And whom?’ - She’s Larin’s. -Her grief she never hides And lone in the woods she hikes."-My hearty friend, you have some fevers.-With age the life is such a badness...’At Olga then he fixed his gaze And whispered: ‘I’ve my happy days...’Why! out of the country thickets...’We them remind about us...Good heavens! Never did she shudder! Nor sudden paleness, redness has...For long as if through fog she one Could follow them all with eyes...At meetings but without lights, And tears, secret torment’s gladness...Of words for songs of prairie districts...Was too afraid, I must confess...Four fatal for the life the stages...Its here: take it and be ‘tackling’ !) All look like silver snowy fields...A lot of stories with the whirls, With wicked ghosts and the girls...The drivers all themselves incite By clapping; each his master curses...In languish of unwitting pities Onegin quickly at her feel is...To all these letters, tears, deeds...And leaf by leaf through it is looking But nothing to her sister says...With unaccountable charms He sees his Olga in his arms...The woman says:And with her eyes all them adoring She looks around and she speaks:The prince as if anew him sees:Zaretsky’s bitten both lips; To Lensky Eugene then appeals:She thinks:The bear drags behind and groans; In front of them she sees and moans:But suddenly the wind has blown Away the lire of all lamps:Onegin got Tatyana’s message. It quickly touched his soul’s strings:Without gold can revive While simple product is its richness:Among admirers obedient I’ve seen she-cranks of other kinds:Sometimes in dream they all, whom dote, To soul mine arrived like guests:What does she see? that at the boards Are sitting spooks of any sorts:At margins of the books she’s meeting Of reader’s pencil slightest signs:But no man in all the district Could ever know of that fuss:By fire of the praise and sighs To tempt the heart of girl yet tries:But from. the shaggy lackey-bear She cannot get away, She flaps:Mazurka now all its rating, Initiative beauties keeps:Ali that has gone like sound’s fizz, And dear Tanya’s youth all dwindles:In crowd everybody renders:They kept in peaceful life some customs Of dear old days; it means:Yet does it whirl the world and us:At goose’s neck a skull is fateful, It’s whirling round for all sides;In front of darkened silent homes, Along the sleepy streets in rows;For it I shall repay a lot By my admission, truly artless;She capital forgot at distance, Its lustre, all its noisy feasts;We must all time all them caress, Respect and love at heart, not less;At any sides we’ll hills divide, Will dig the tunnels under waters;Would come, she innocently grieves, Her languid eyes to moon she raises;To take it up she can’t, in fear Of bear: he about hangs;At any place you fancy him, The refuge for the happy wishes;By greyish Kalmyk: wears glasses And torn a coat, socks in hands;She doesn’t glare at the rest, And doesn’t claim to have success;I last and poor mite was giving For you myself, remember this;He’s not a fool; Onegin, grudging, Did not respect the heart of his;The folly’s wicked, giddy, needs Grand rubbish for the grand high persons;On shaky bench, and own head To Tanya’s shoulder he bends;She sighs, assuming as her real Delights of others and the griefs;Of waters, forests and of hands Is master in the country borders;He tried his cooling word to own, To keep away from man like this;Of trusting soul hard confessions, Of pure love such good expressions;The first of leaflets just can show: Qu’ecrirez-vous sur ces tablettes;It came, it scattered, it is hanging On boughs of the oak-trees;Again he, downcast and thoughtful, In front of dear Olga stands;But nowadays the frosts are crackling (A rhyme for cra.ckling, one foresees;I like teenage’s lively madness, The tightness, brightness and the gladness;‘I’m not quite made to be much happy. My soul’s alien for bliss;By got by Olga strange tuition She’s touched, in depth of soul sighs;My pen has no old wishes To spoil some useful flying leafs;Sometimes himself for tricks on others Was given lessons by the others;We easily betrayed her daily And she was cheating all of us;That there are by fate selected Of people dear sacred friends;But landlords of the country’s peasants Were never liked by him at feasts;In haze are now minds of people: The moral them to sleep just makes;And thus the time would pass; meanwhile They ask, and Olga tea prepares;They were at Shrove-day accustomed To have the fattest Russian blins;His verse is sluggish and obscure (It’s called romanticism by us;Not seeing any use of porches Through chink she now stilly watches;His temper, in his chair sitting, And aims to own each other’s brains;Without fail you’ll find them here: Two hearts, the blooms, the torch’s rays;The nightingales, of spring the lovers, At night all sing: dog-rose flowers;The ladies sit at fire-place; You see in corners whispering maids;.Zaretsky to behave refuses: ‘But where is the second yours?’‘To whom in throng of jealous girls You dedicated tune of hers?’Who’s there, crimson beret wears, With Spanish diplomat she speaks?’,Of legislator of the halls?What has been moved inside of him, In soul lazy, cool, delightless?’But may be she’s in love?’ ‘Who knows?What for you visited all us?The withering of own days, Which can’t revive by any ways?In actions husband’s mutilated, And us for that at court caress?Because remember bitter mourning When hear noise of forest’s thicks?Because we often take the talkings For real, useful, vital things?His own works?Who’s that, which never us betrays?Who isn’t bored to be dissembling, To tell the same who never ends?Who grandly tries but mere rambling To prove the people: eggs is eggs?The ghosts of unearthly whims, Of sacred poetry dreams?To see it here even poor I cannot; does it bother us?)Of tears tracks?..‘I’m neighbour just’.‘It’s seven soon, it’s time to wake, Onegin, may be, has to wait’.I haven’t force... is tired breast…Your pricks of swear, you must know, Your strict and cool severe chatVladimir has the book to close; He takes a pen: his verse has gotTatyana has a dream unknown: As if she lone were to getThe night is frosty, skies are clear, Of all the heaven’s bodies lightOnegin’s life is somewhat sacred; And he, unfeeling, was to itAnd often in the summer’s sphere, When clear is the sky at nightIt’s time to leave for life the tightHer neck was caught by long a bough, Then branches could her ears meetWhen to the porch to part all went. At parting all they fussed aboutAnd often at Taurida’s beaches She brought me in the have of nightIndeed, you won’t With all your pure flaming heartAs he to hate coquette decided Excited Lensky didn’t wantAnd stands at stintWhose knowledge makes his heart all cool Arid him forbids to play the foolt‘Enough, get up, I now mustAttractiveness; to catch in nets By first expressing some regretWith throng by passions deeply fusing, I brought my playful muse to fitForgive me you, my dear nature; I change my world such still and lightIs it high time as I forgotThe beds are made. And any guestHas mined great life-giving voice, And after funeral sad habitOnegin Who loved the youth with all his heart(Which seemed to be like this and that) Me captivating; and for thatWhat would you feel if still, unmoving Your friend on earth is mute at restThey didn’t use the word a beauty To call her, but from head to footThe youthful years would be fading, The soul’s heat would not be hotInsurgent youth is not yet endless. When Eugene was to change his sortBut at leastFor love all ages are submissive But to the innocent young heartBut it betrays with froth imprudent My stomack. I have never soughtFor weeks matchmaker was then coming To all my kin, and due to thatIn form of merry, pretty jest With somewhat ruse, to have the breastCould come of such a lazy mood. He didn’t join the guild existentFor all of thatCould grasp in idle, futile reading, Was not concerned a little bitHe never wished to rummage quickly In chronological thick dustThis thoughtful, interesting creation By travelling merchant them was broughtMy Moscow with guilty feeling; Yet neither feast and nor a giftBut many days away could getMost be respected for the life. And true girl-friend in love’s adjustmentIs it notIn book’s short contents, finds she out Some words that should explain aboutYet, being chilled, are striking horses, Annoyed by harness; near lightIt is benevolent, releasing, Like vernal storms in fields make startThe rime on frosty days yet sunlit; And sledges; and before the sunsetBy dreadful exclamation Onegin’s shuddered; slain, impatientBecause ire, truthfulness she’s swift? Because from heavens got as giftHe for meeting Arrived; is coming... just has gotWith kin to meetThe young scapegrace was so deeming, When he by post-chaise in dustWhat happened, what a strange a dreamtA yard boy’s running in the middle, He made his dog in sledge to sitMeanwhile the Cyclops of the village In front of dimmish forge’s lightWith charms untroubled she is sweet; For long at table does she sitHas been enlivened all the talk; In front of hostess light rot-But what is it -And always pity of the past; Enough, of other sing you fast!’The mistress cries, ‘At last you’ve got!’But blissful husband of coquette, To part from him you did regret!But hist!And now jealouser’s triumphant!Of own life he could forget!Meanwhile in life you try to revel, As much as I you take form it!Quite greatly, when he made a visit, On her was fawning, you should see it!And who that poor Tanya previous In this princess could not have met!Ah, if he knew, by what a cruel Offence. Tatyana’s heart was burnt!To try to keep the indignation Her bps, such stubborn, now want!The poet, the thoughtful dreamer Was killed by hand of friend for nought!On roan horses, three abrest; Arid let’s have dinner before rest!At bottom of my soul fast... But give them madrigal at last!The spring of honour, idol last!Adores my Olga: figure, breast!Like drunkard tight by real Frenchmen Was captivated (dear lot!).Alas! all days and nights are now One long and lone dream in heat,Shall I portray in truthful picture Secluded study of the best,Again of scandals, and at last To altar I shall lead them fast,But uncoordinated volumes From devil’s library all got,At least three hours he daily In front of mirrors gladly spent,All double lanterns in the sight Are stretching their joyful light,To their talks pays none attention, In them she sees yet nothing smart,Then he for her a chair’s finding, They speak about this and that,In summer Eugene lived like hermit: Past six was getting up in hamlet,Severe anguish, called a spleen, Was seeking in the world unquiet,Besides, they all are so pure, Magestic, for the love unfit,But may be those kinds of pictures By now can’t you all attract,She sees a hall forgotten now, A cue on billiard has a rest,And more five steps they neared striding, And Lensky screwed left eye more fast,Then life almighty brings the good: A pompous bloom arid costly fruit,Not secret tortures of the evil Would I in prose represent,Your tears, if you will be crying, Would never touch my gloomy heart,By sight through panes at moonlight diminish, By this quite pallid feeble light,Lornette his captious he has got,All over the Neva river, When waters, being gaily light,For long to wish, your knees embracing, And weeping at your dear feet,Coquette is judging always coolly; Tatyana loves without jest,With passion and the wit to gain, For sudden tenderness to wait,Manzony, Herder; was re-reading Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot,Thus you, Yazykov, always wrote In gust of passion of your heart,Of ballet’s noises being tired, Transforming morning into night,Lornette his double slantwise renders To see all ladies to be fit,Himself consoled if not suited, Betrayed - was glad to have a rest,‘My uncle keeps to honest systems: By falling ill yet not in jest,‘My dreams and years won’t rather Return to make me new a bit,I knew some difficult young ladies' Like winter cold, pure, light,‘You now meet...’ - And both coolly, The enemies, not aiming yet,The spring enlightened him, and now From dosed chambers he gets out,But to no person In all the world I’d give my heart,It was an honourable, pleasant A challenge, or cartel quite short,Onegin now enters, For stalls comes over the feet,Nor pictures nor a wisdom thought That Virgin or Racine had got,Could never show shining passion, Nor sparks of poetic light,They bring Tatyana to grand meeting The tightness, agitation, heat,On real price of ancient treaties, On evil, good, on science fruit,Reposes in heart contentment Like drunkard, spending night for payment,As idols now to have got Or Vampire, who’s lost in thought,For love she’s dedicated truly Like loyal child for mother’s nest,My student’s cell; its sullen tightness At once by rays of hers was lit,With utterly regretful soul, On granit leaning, straight. upright,His father served for many years, And fell in debt, such big and vast,Which came from neighbouring a valley; The peasants come to take a rest,But I can hardly drag my feet,It’s nice to see when stubborn gracious He bends his horns to butt is apt,Adorer of the glory, freedom, Immersed in own stormy thought,Monsieur l’Abbe, a Frenchman mere, To give the boy some chance to rest,And my in life success at random, My stylish place, the guests till night,With Kharlikóv Panfíl and children Monsieur Triquet arrived, a wit,As if to prove that he was right. And Eugene, passionate, indulgent,We all to learn had little go And anyhow something got,Which friend of yours with smile of terror In circles decent, so right,For tears her, by will suppressed - Her heart is torn in half at breast,Could change his soul little bit: Some virgin fire flamed in it,And albums perfect but enormous, Of stylish rhymers racking lot,‘I weep... If that your Tanya old Till now you could not forget,And is alive yet for the present, In philosophical sense desert,About haying and of wine, Of kennels, of relation’s lint, -About other’s restless passions, And other’s love will touch the heart, -‘My habit,..‘Do not.’‘And where is your friend, the former?- Vladimir such request has got, It seems, he us at all forgot.’.He comes: the corks for ceiling pass, The wine like comet splashes fast.That uhlan, slave of lot his own, With her should come to regiment.Her dream is sinister, it all At sad adventures pointed out.They don’t listen to, they cry, They argue, laugh and squeak in fright.But yet she can’t.To sit with him all day and night, Not stepping out of his sight.For noise of fuss such brilliant, bright.Together for a time they sit.But if my wretched fate you rather Will grasp with pity little bit, You’ll never leave me such unfit.That, giving balls three times a year, He squandered all he had at last.As they are mean and simple features, You won’t see fine art in that.And now at your will is rather To punish me with scorn for that.Of dear friends a pretty chat.She hurries up to have a chat.To aim unseen at forehead pale, At distance try to make him silent.Of grievous notes of the heart.Up marble footsteps he has flown, With hand has mended hair fast.To scratch unfaithful icy path As he’s afraid to fall at last.Vladimir could have odes written, - To road them Olga never got.(It is the same for people simple) To curse him tried this way and that.Haphazard wander to prevent.His letter’s here, quite exact.Gvozdin, good master, who could shortly Make beggars of his peasants fast.But others made him disappoint! The slow languid was the point.Became alredy quite inapt.’My second? - Eugene said with passion, My friend, monsieur Guiilot, does wait.They all replaced for each of roberts; The tea’s been brought.B By pantalones, frac, gillette - In Russian they are absent yet.It’s right.It seems to me, my wit is fading And silently I perish must.His sharp, but somewhat cooling wit.- Yes and no yet.To tell her something of the rest; Misgivings hardly squeezed her breast.Should I begin my freedom flight.Through magic crystal I could not Myself discern all their lot.In which 1 loved and suffered hard, And where buried I my heart.He’s very glad that former pass He changed for anything at last.It’s all decided (it’s my version) By heavens board: I’m yours at heart.He could his feelings there show But not to bristle like a beast.Are silent.In languish of the loving bounds He’s spending now day and night.It’s better place for passing letters fit.In times of hopes, tender sadness, Monsieur was driven from the court.It was polite and not discrepant: For duel Lensky called, in short.She stayed in frosty tone darkness: Young maiden is with Him at last.The inns are absent.Was shaking. Due to Zues he’s being The heir of all relatives in trust.Her secret heat, of which she dreamt, Whose plenitude ih heart she felt.‘It’s mine!’ the voice of Eugene thunders! And all the gang has vanished fast.And… he could not.They joked, not without sin At Tanya’s suitor made a hint.The persons, known everywhere, And wanted fools for trampling feet.And what.But summer’s flying quicker yet.A jet of steam yet hardly flashes, its whirling, vanishes at last.He speeds through Petersburg, all restless, Awoken by drums’s beat.With jug young woman goes fast, By feet she crushes snow-dust.And full of truth which he can meet His elegies like rivers fleet.For flirt she never gives a hint - For that high world is never fit.Makes noise, is dark and grey, quite lost Yet isn’t frozen by frost.But where now he is not... And where left he dismal rot.He puzzled over effect, In it could miracles suspect.Made all young heart to pine away, For someone did her soul wait.I was embittered, he… unfit.He made me love him with insistence And couldn’t find some better test.Istómina’s in front of pit, With nymths she waits to make a hit.To inner porch he goes fast, He’s laying down her at last.Not flaming boy for fighting fit But male with honour and the wit.For garden now we shall fleet In which she’s got with him to meet.Without service, wife or deed, By something to engage unfit.She spins; a friend of winter night The splinter’s crackling making light.Instead she sees unknown yard, The fence, the kitchen, mews, a cart.New way I’m starting, do my best From all past life to take a rest.He differed people in effect, And other’s passions could respect.Who understood it wee a hit, All his attention paid to it.A dwarf with tail; and there’s that Who’s half-a-crane and half-a-cat.Away in lirical a heat, He cites like Delvig, drunk at feast.With his malicious evil wit, Who boils in action for a bit.The knight of freedom and of right, In case like this he wasn’t right.The greatest gossip, old cheat, The glutton, grafter, fool a bit.The grammar; language from abroad For mother tongue they all had got.Give arguments, but I do not: To quarrel ages don’t want.And she herself renewed at last Night-cap and dressing-gown fast.But yet to make him be at rest Of pleasures won’t be the best.And took him by the scruff of neck And in a gloomy corner kept.He showed tenderness. Such start Enlivens poor Tama’s heart.Then supper... time to be in bed, And soon the guests all home get.Of sorceresses words and peep Delusive are... as their feet.The brigadier, a slave of God, Has peace by him forever got.From here, deeply lost in thought, He looked at threatening flame he got.And proud language’s now lit For prose postal a bit.Deserted room alone filling You read; it’s Pradt, it’s Walter Scott.To journalists I put at mercy Of labour mine some real fruit.Petrarka 			Where days are cloudy and short 			A tribe was there born 			For which to die makes no hurt. (It.)She’s taciturn like that Swetlana,.. When came, at window she sat.-Too many neighbours we have had, I cannot count al! them yet.-But whisper, laugh of fools can hurt..’He stepped away... he turned a bit..’-She’s nothing ever entertaining, For life she wouldn’t give a hoot..But why? I don’t grasp it yet). And now friends enjoy a chat..And how long?’ ‘Two will he fast...’Opinions of the worldly might...She ordered secretly her granny: Prepare table for a guest...And fair sex like down’s slight...You had, I saw, some little pity, Some small respect to age, at least...For me is now hard the gladness, Not only the grief... my heart...For her he’s looking on... for nought...Let’s come together... take a rest...By dreams of distant pretty side, About moon and charming night...The letter’s ready, has been fit...Began to aim... but quickly just Onegin shot...But darkish mirror can reflect The trembling moon alone yet...Some balls, one children’s entertainment...Not...For nowhere am I smart...Which they in world of London grant To speak like vulgar, (but I can’t...And stilly does she say at last:You are guessing To know; you are quite exact:Zaretsky was explains refusing; To stay for long he didn’t want:I liked his features in the past:His pen with love is always sighing Without coolness of the wit:And by degrees to sleep he’s reading His passions, thoughts, his own wit:Of any ink not any spot, In room two cupboards they had got:One day to their isolation And for Tatyana they then bought:In house-keeping he was best Arid any problems put to test:With heavenly her pride she’s touching The earth when conies to take a rest:With unexpected consolation Unwittingly some thought of that:The ringing voice of Olga, though, From Larin’s soon forever went:But anyhow, dear reader, Alas! it was young lover’s lot:It might he other: he’d he having Some common, plainful, simple lot:In dark my Tanya’s quite upset With nurse in whisper has a chat:The fire’s dead; and under ashes Like gold is the coal’s crust;Not far from Tanya, young and grieved, My dear dreamer quite respondent;Visantine tubes with amber, treasures Of bronze and porcelain of the past;I grasp its vanity, and never Too much I was attached to it;By honeyed dream he was amusing The doubts of his own heart;And passions which were mute and heartless; To praise yet you l don’t want;With own wife that’s very portly Came stout Pustyakov at last;In front of him gay fancy’s giving His Pharaoh, and tries to fit;He ceased to fall in love with beauties And dangled after like the rest;In talks all’s plain, its all indifferent, Yet slander they without interest;In days of gaiety and wishes I could at ballets lose my wit;Onegin was as mute as dust, Tatyana pined for love in secret;In own family she was Like strange a girl in thoughts quite lost;And to the river, lightly clad Beneath the mounting he went;Of Russian works he something read, Rejecting nothing for effect;At first are silent her observers, They look at her from head to foot;But never wanted to correct; To censorship I’ll pay my debt;Could come such proud or obedient, Could be attentive or indifferent;And yawned with happy wife and friend, Not troubled by the jealous torment;Yet Cupids, devils and the serpents Make noise and hop in front of pit;In what a waste, when? where? how? You, madman. will all them forget?Not Eugene he’s at most?And what?Can it be real that at last My youth had withered in the past?And what?-But what about?Ah, feet, such small, where are you flow, What vernal plants are trampling yet?With which to start?What?Of stylish words some ready set?And what?Will be like Melmoth? patriotic? Cosmopolite? or has he got it?Shall see emotional flight?What more you want?Of what a languor’s full her breast?Of youthful passion and of thought, Exalted, tender, bold, prompt?What will he choose for his engagement?And in the world could help to back Seductive though small respect?With yawn I’ll cover disrespect And shall of bygone recollect?Tatyana, tell: for whom is it?Is he a parody not yet?May be, in vain he was at feasts Such careless and fine at least?And what? -‘But do you love, indeed, the other?’ -And what? -The ‘else’s trends’, for you the best Among dull rhymers and the rest? -I don’t grasp despite endeavours; You listen to (if I am right?)‘For single winter it will do, At least I’ll credit money you’…With her, my lips will find anew Petrarka’s language ‘I love you’ .The world will me forget, but you My charming girl, will ever youWhatever are you, dear reader, A friend or not, I’d like with youEach day in grief of separation By fickle fate, too far from youTo what malicious merry-making, It may be, give a cause for you!You, Moscow, I thought of you!In them I marvelled at the virtue And fashioned arrogance, that hurts you,Again promiscuosly he’s reading… Has read all Gibbon and Rousseau,Meantime account, made for you, In details I shall give to you,In this a dirty pool with you, My friends, I have a bath like you.She loved the fraud about fears Of Richardson and by Rousseau.Believe, I’d never try anew To look for better bride but. you.If I were poet like you.At any place in front of you Your fatal tempter waits for you.Do not be angry, dear. you Well know: I am dull for you...But persons ordinary for us Are never strange, they fit all u.0To you I’ll give my service; forward You keep on mind my speech to you;I might be deeply loving you, But getting used I’d run from you;But what I’d want? what task am aiming By opening my heart. to you?With own heavy hall, his dear; Gvozdín, Buyánov, PetushkóvGriboyedovAll’s now calm; in rooms you hear: Is snoring heavy Pustyakóv(Of course you him alredy met;) And counsellor retired Flyánov,From two to thirty years on; The district dandy Petushkóv,It’s signed by t.a.v.Dmitriyev.Lensky sawEffects, but stepped away anew; He’s blessed much more, who never knewAnd with a bowWhat for would ever view‘What, you are married! didn’t know!And how could he be annoying The hearts of ladies, whom he knew!(A highly torturing a feeling, A voluntary cross of few).That spring of youth could quickly speed (As I could joke until now)?A splendid house now shines, In windows some shades can flow,Across the torrent have been laid. In front of noisy gulf of flow,But when his thoughts were of destroying His own rivals, though few,This kind of book yet doesn’t show The writer’s fancies in a row,Of lively lucid verse’s glow,Or vagrant Melmoth, such distressful, Or Corsair, or Eternal Jew,I would with joy allow To give this masquerade by now,Two pistols in a row,She near parents could bloom, Like lilies in the valley grow,At time of parting furthermore It beats like ready just to blow.Among the friends the moon’s more shining; To Moscow all beauties flew.The peaceful life with him and you, Who pictured Finnish frosts anew.I love him, he’s my kin in-law.Of life her features have but few.Or Sbogar, mythical a few.For boston, lomber come in sight, For whist, well famous until now.And shelf with dusty books anew With mourning taffeta he drew.Who loves you more than I can do Must here write a verse anew.To-morrow we’ll Tanya show...In hands my fate for ever now, In front of you I tears shed: Defend my soul anyhow...For changes fated anyhow...But now...And me you have in view...In front of them when they were near White-stone Moscow they saw:He was in dances quick and light, Without tension he could bow:I’ve heard some voice of new desire, I’ve got new sorrow anew;She’s been embarrassed, cannot now Him understand yet anyhow;What kind’s he now anyhow?How would you not love Moscow?Is he the same or quiet now?D’you know?...Tatyana’s interest is affected By melting on the fire wax:Well, to present you I shall try’Of morning flower which then At halt of life must wither faintly’.-To Larin’s -’Oh, looks it strangely: To kill your pretty evenings daily…Then we’ll submissively obey To hear stories by the wayShe got afraid and in a hurry Tatyana tries away to flyI am engulfed by trembling vice: An epigram is being readyAnd in a dayThey scared love quite timid, shy., But they attracted lovers byMaiden’s singing intimate, Don’t peep invisiblyEach shutter’s open, and dryThrough all her fate, severe, ruling. This crank, this dangerous and a gloomyYou’d better hurry up away. The shepherd at the break of dayUnwillingly, with sighs of pity: He’s blessed, who knew all their prettyDid not remember love and spite, Behaved like some indifferent guyFor silent room alone getting At once the whole world forgetting With nobody nearbyShe’s trembling like persued a doe, Her darkening eyes she hides awayMeanwhile far off The honest person and ZaretskyBy crimson hand not seen by now The dawn from morning towards the layHe loved the method with his passion: To make a man on earth to layOr, like coquette, he simply boomed? By his good will Or willy-nillyWithout jokes By bore and rhyme depressed, all dayZhookovskyOn blue, with slashes covered, ice The sun is gay; the snow’s filthyAnd you, the girls all young, good looking, Whom droshkies quickly take awayFrom mountains descends this wayAnd of romantic finest rose. He sang of countries: far awayFor all the childish tricks felt sorry, To them was stranger; dreadful storyHe’s killing Lensky; horrid shading Lays down, then a dreadful cryWhen we get that fellow, When we see him, instantlyWith the berries laughingly, Don’t hear secretly‘I fell in love... you’d get awayTo cry, to weep I’m now ready...’ -I see, you are unwell alreadyZaretsky cautiously could layBut will and power of mind All overcame, and she alreadyWhich seemed to be more tender, rich; And with the trustful blind entreatyWith flocks of snow; through the crowns Of naked birches from the skyTatyana was the name of sister... Such name we use to gratifyWith care steps on icy brim And slips, and falls; all fluffy, merryOffended you at bottle badly, Or if yet he, annoyed, quite madlyTo all of kin the dinners row They take my Tanya every dayWhen in the garden’s alley fine The fate us brought together; sadlyOnegin’s quick to dress. Already His sernant’s ordered to be readyOf Corneille stately genius; there Was known prickly ShakhovskoyHas come; to servant says he will Lepage’s fatal barrels steadyQuite egoistic, selfish, dry, To dreaming dedicated greatlyAt home meets without tension, At visits two-three words would sayLet’s away get rapidly, Him bespatter easilyOf how state itself enriches, And how lives, which way and whyOf writings of the life in past, But ancient anecdotes deeply -Has brought. the sun and anyhow The merry festival name-day .To me alone could he bring His dawn of life, such sad and stormy!’And all grandparents exclaim: ’But how years fly away!’We sing of their lucky fate And glory!‘Agreed’ - You... dear guy!What do you want to ask, you say!And. so cunny, she is gay. Already’s able to betray!But stealthily the door unlocking Grey-haired nurse already’s walking, With tea on tray is coming up: -My child, it’s time for getting up; But, beauty, you are now ready!But forward, forward, you, my story!I see you strong already!Her love but fright nevertheless, Main person of this novel pretty!Tatyana (Russian in her soul, Herself she doesn’t know why)Or even own demon mine. Onegin (him I’ll occupy),- You tell me, nanny,When clouds in the sky are drifting And stars in turn all get away,To pensiveness she got accustomed From cradle to the present day,And under curtain fine, all silky, In her new bed she is unsleepy,And I, untroubled, glorified The girl from rocks, ideal my,More pretty than a parquette fashioned, The river, clad in ice, is flashy,Then gets he out of the yard, At home falls asleep too quickly,You don’t let be cooled my soul, Become embittered, hardened, dry,With youthful years gets away, And my Zaretsky, I would say,By rays of day will shine the morning And brightly will be playing clay,I checked it all, and very strictly; In many places contradictory,In late of evening, such amusing, Along the Petersburg high-way,You are like comrade, 1 believe, To help are ready always gently,She’s still and simple at a glimpse. She seemed to be a certain copy,I see: my age is short: to cure My life for every other day,By name he was Vladimir Lensky. With Göttingen in soul frankly,Or sleeping over the Lethe The poet is quiet, easy,Among all those ardent days Of boiling youth, such bright and gay,And from his dressing room he went Like giddy Venus, when quite gaily,With whom we all to sleep had gone; - For tender girl, the dreamer hearty,Let us play inventfully, Lot us play more happily,She’s dutiful and always modest, As fresh as morning, always gay,(With all that I began my thought). But when he reached it in a hurry,You all, whom decorated guickly Tolstoy with brush such wondrous, sweatily,Is pictured rather well correctly With his immoral soul wry,And seems to be yet hardly live: But Tanya simply couldn’t cry,On river’s batik; and far away In front of it, all looking gay,Ah, brethren! pleased I was then greatly When many curches, each with belfry,The branch has no wreath; Beneath, alone, grey and puny,The further I’m from youth my gay,To whom in secret you did write Some verse, your sins to justify,«It’s time to change them in a body,Forgive me thickets In which my days have passed away,Creation of the hell or sky, This angel, haughty devil wry,On balcony at morning sitting She liked to meet the break of day,In her could never find a hook To use the word on fashion’s duty,And he was sure: friends are ready To suffer all for him already,Which pressed his spirits all the way And kept his laziness for day, -‘I fell in love’, again she whispers In nurse’s ear in dismay.His horse the snow feels at present, Its trotting, lazily away.On jade postillion’s sitting ragged, Emaciated, beard’s shaggy.The pilgrim young, you know why, Should long ago home fly.Like crank by chance at feast enormous He’s angry.The reapers dip the jars for best Arid pleasant clear water daily.‘Shall we begin?’ ‘Perhaps,’ says Lensky.The man, by muses once affected, As usual frowns alt the day.Like senseless rhymes of stylish In winter’s even every way.All’s By now much dilapidated, Indeed, I don’t know why.Thanks God, had any wish to try; But at the life his look was wry.In which a bloody, dreadful shade To him appeared every day.He has a trouble from the feeling Of spook of unreturning day.And drifting of the country’s pastime In all her dreams looked better, gay.Young triumphant peasant On wooden sledge renews the way.The afternoon he passes, ready Again to waste his day already.‘To me you wrote, Do not deny.K. Vyasemsky.From morning forth I must be sure, That I shall see you just to-day.But I am ready to refuse As its translation isn’t easy.To leave the world I would he sorry.The herds make noise; of nightingale The song at silent night is gay.Moldavia, that’s far away From Italy, was end of way.Unwaited coming any day And each delay to get away.But, seems to me I’d wish, of course To fill my fate with kind of glory.And gradually rises day.Or may be guessed from far away That uncle his would pass away.And Flyanov who is not quite healthy, On chairs in a room are wealthy.She went away.When he’s at home, always there By Olga is he kept all day.Ah! I’ll forever keep in mind Small feet of lady.The way to keep her man away! And everything became o’key.He laughs - they all are laughing further: He frowns - all are srient, wry.We haven’t any decent road, Forgotten bridges all decay.Baratynsky.Then all they grandly went away, As if they spent a business day.The bugs and fleas at stations lone Each minute take your sleep away.But soon, not asked for her concession, Was to the altar led away.Desires, sorrows, some dreamings In soul crowded each day.The world said: why, He is a clever, pretty guy.Vladimir answered short, was dry. Then he was mute, his face was wry.From Romul to the present day - In depth of mind he kept away.You let me now my ideas To tell you all this very day.The novel’s pages of my either, At will that name well sanctify.She’s playful, careless and gay, Well, just the same as every day.The nurse was using own way To help the girl with cross and pray.‘What’s happened?’- `Nothing’… - Gets away.The shade of coming storm this way Is darkening all the breaking day.All line and clever at his date, A bit ridiculous to-day.He looks and sees: the time is high Away from yard for mill to fly.But at the window, not gay, Was mutely sitting all the day.All bow, shuffle, gladly smile, Wet-nurses scream, the babies cry.Such dread! She wants to be away, In thickets of the woods to stay.Some words, yet stilly, tries to say, But at the table could she stay.Grandchildren once upon good day Will press from world all us away.And listening Id my singing rhyme From banks they all together fly.Explain to you, do it frankly.To call some people gets away.For evening party...As soon as I recall your stare And that your homily...And can’t; she’s now deeply worrier!, She moans and she’d like to cry...Her head to shoulder’s inclining, Her light chemise is now sliding From charming shoulder away...And she, as if she’s burned by flame, Has stopped at once and looks away...Exactly...I lagged behind as their member And ran away...‘You send your grandchild stilly there To give this note to... to my...‘Me?’ - Yes, Tatyana’s name-day happy Will be on Saturday...Her tired look and slipped away...At him she stares all the way:But at the time of cold winter The drive is pleasant all the day:Five hundred years), roads, may be, In all the state will change invently:You, country Priams, should be ready; And you, each sensitive a lady:Through nose singingly could say, But soon her mood could pass away:It means the following thing mainly:The night then comes, the moon is mooving Around distant parts of sky;Like he, she was well-dressed, in fashion, In best attires every day;His eyes the books were reading, But all his thoughts were far away;You get along the Neva’s route, Newborn by me the work of fancy;He makes a sign and all they bother; He drinks and all they drink and cry;With his she-wolf, in hunger bold, A wolf is coming to the way;Of album leaflets with his care To decorate he works away;From them: she new blazes greatly, She feels herself in passion badly;Like life of bard, such simple, honest, Like kiss of love at dawn of day;All evening Lensky was distracted, Was now silent, now gay;For hot discussions of the gentry, The terror of the midnight sentry;At break of dawn the night is cold; In cornfields work has ceased away;With talks about novel hazy; With symbol, making sisters crazy;Of fraud she knows nothing strictly And wants to dream her life away?But why Talyana should be guilty?And wayward, willful is her head? Or heart is flaming, tender, healthy?What does the kinsfolk mean namely?And then from people far away To give her lessons all the day?But really?What are you: angel guardian trusty Or tempter treacherous and ghastly?H’m, h’m! You, generous my readers, Are all your kinsfolk o’key?‘What way?The noise, the laughter, running, bows, Mazurka, gallop, waltz.---------------------------------------------
